This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized 
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the 
information in books and make it universally accessible. 

Google - books 

http://books.google.com 




Digitized by 




Digitized by Google 





Digitized by v^ooQle 





Primed at The Abbey Press, Fort-Augustus, Scotland. 



/Google 





HENfiT ,V.®.*SE STEPHENS 



Digitized by Google 





SANCTE . PATER . BENEDICTE . 

PER . EXEMPLAREM . VITAM . 

ET . PRETIOSISSIMAM . MORTEM . TUAM . 
BENEDIC . ME . 

IN . VIA . REGULAS . TUiE . 

UT . PERVENIAM . 

AD . PATRIAM . jETERN^E . GLORIAS . IN . CCELIS . 
AMEN 

. /T\ , 

1 \U 1 



510213 




Digitized by Google 




3n«mmafur. 

■J* /Bnbas, 

Episcopus Aberdonensis. 
21 Martii, 1906. 



Digitized by Google 







'te foce 



vii 



PREFACE. 




ORE than thirteen hundred years have 
passed away since the founder and 
father of western monachism gave to 
the world, from the solitude of Monte 
Cassino,* the code of religious life which the con- 
sensus of Christian centuries has stamped with the 
distinctive title of the Holy Rule. 

Forming as it did for so many ages one of the 
most powerful instruments of the civilisation of 
Europe, the Rule of St. Benedict possesses — 
apart from its intrinsic merits, or its value as a 
literary monument of the early Church — an interest 
which is not limited to the Benedictine family 
alone, but which cannot but be shared by every 
thoughtful student of history. 

The English version here presented, which has 
been undertaken in compliance with the demand 
tor a new translation of the Holy Rule, will be 
found, it is hoped, to have at least the merit of 
j| * About 535 a. d. 



/Google 




(preface 



viii 



faithfully rendering the original text. It has been /I 
the translator's aim, at the same time, to preserve 
as far as possible the simplicity of style which, next 
to the supernatural wisdom that illuminates every 
page, is perhaps the most striking characteristic of 
the Holy Rule. 

The Latin text adopted, which will be found to 
differ slightly from that of recent English editions, 
was first printed in 1659 by D. Augustine de Fer- 
rariis, a monk of Monte Cassino, from the most 
ancient and authentic manuscripts in the archives 
of that venerable monastery. The text in question 
(since reprinted in the Florilegium Bibliothecae 
Casinensis ) has been carefully collated throughout 
with a MS. copy of the Rule, and commentary of 
Bernard of M. Cassino, dating from the 13th cen- 
tury, and in the possession of Fort-Augustus Abbey. 
Variations of any special interest are noted in the 
margin. 

The Dates in small type indicate the portion 
of the Holy Rule appointed to be read daily in 
monasteries, usually at the end of Prime. 

An index has been added for convenience ot' 
reference. 

The explanatory notes are chiefly based upon the 
most ancient and approved commentaries on the 
Holy Rule ; and it is hoped that they will be founch 
of service in the elucidation of various passaged! 
whose meaning is not apparent from a mere verbal 




Digitized by Google 




'Preface 



IX 



rendering of the original text. It has been thought 
best to place the notes in an appendix, rather than 
at the foot of the page, in order not to interfere 
with the use of the Holy Rule for purposes of devo- 
tion or meditation, for which it is so admirably 
adapted. 

May this little work go forth bearing with it the 
blessing of our dear Holy Father Saint Bbnbdict ; 
and may it be the means, under God, of making his 
name more widely known, and more abundantly 
honoured, in the land that was once his by a hun- 
dred ties. 

St. Benedict’s Abbey, 

Fort-Augustus, N.B. 

Solemnity of our most Holy Father St, Benedict , 1 886 . 



Note to Second Edition. 



The text of the Rule, as well as the translation 
and notes, have been carefully revised throughout ; 
ajid the Editor desires to express his gratitude to 
kind friends and critics — both within and without 



the Benedictine family — who have helped him with 
suggestions and emendations. 

As the scope of this little book is devotional rather 
than critical, it has been thought unnecessary to 
reprint the few variations in the Latin text which 
w ere given as marginal notes in the former edition. 






INDEX CAPITULORUM. 



Prologus 

CAP. 

1 De Generibus Monachorum 

2 Qualis esse debeat Abbas .... 

3 De adhibendis ad Consilium Fratribus 

4 Quae sint Instrumenta Bonorum Operum 

5 De Obedientia 

6 De Taciturnitate ..... 

7 De Humilitate 

8 De Officiis Divinis in Noctibus . 

9 Quot Psalmi dicendi sunt in Nocturnis Horis 

10 Qualiter /Estatis tempore agatur Nocturna Laus 

11 Qualiter Dominicis diebus Vigilae agantur . 

12 Qualiter Matutinorum Solemnitas agatur 

13 Privatis diebus qualiter Matutini agantur 

14 In Natalitiis Sanctorum qualiter Vigiliae agantur 

15 Alleluia quibus temporibus dicatur 

16 Qualiter Divina Opera per diem agantur 

17 Quot Psalmi per easdem Horas canendi sunt 

18 Quo Ordine ipsi Psalmi dicendi sunt . 

19 De Disciplina Psallendi .... 

20 De Reverentia Orationis .... 

21 De Decanis Monasterii .... 

22 Quomodo dormiant Monachi 

23 De Excommunicatione Culparum 

24 Qualis debeat esse Modus Excommunicationis 

25 De gravioribus Culpis .... 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




1 

\¥ 



onfcnf* 



xi 



CONTENTS. 



The Prologue 

CHAP. 

1 Of the several kinds of Monks and their way of life 

2 What kind of man the Abbot ought to be . 

3 Of calling the Brethren to Council 

4 What are the Instruments of Good Works . 

- 5 Of Obedience 

6 Of the Practice of Silence 

7 Of Humility 

8 Of the Divine Office at Night .... 

9 How many Psalms are to be said at the Night-Hours 

10 How the Night-Office is to be said in Summer time 

11 How the Night-Office is to be said on Sundays . 

12 How the Solemn Office of Lauds is to be said 

13 How Lauds are to be said on Week-days . 

14 How the Night-Office is to be said on Saints’ -days 

15 At what times of the year Alleluia is to be said . 

16 How the Work of God is to be done in the day-time 

17 How many Psalms are to be sung at these Hours 

18 In what order the Psalms are to be said 

19 Of the Discipline of saying the Divine Office 

20 Of Reverence at Prayer ...... 

2^ Of the Deans of the Monastery .... 

*2 How the Monks are to Sleep .... 

iu Of Excommunication for Offences 

lu What the measure of Excommunication should be 
4p Of graver Faults 

r 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




xii 



3n$«r Cajrifuforunt 



V 



CAP. 

26 De iis qui, tine jussione Abbatis, junguntur Excom- 

municatis 

27 Qualiter debeat esse sollicitus Abbas circa Excom- 

municatos 

28 De his qui saepius correpti non emendaverint 

29 Si debeant iterum recipi Fratres exeuntes de Mona- 

sterio 

30 De pueris minori aetate, qualiter corripiantur 

31 De Cellerario Monasterii, qualis sit . 

32 De Ferramentis, vel rebus Monasterii 

33 Si quid debeant Monachi proprium habere . 

34 Si omnes debeant aequaliter necessaria accipere . 

35 De Septimanariis Coquinae 

36 De Infirmis Fratribus 

37 De Senibus, vel Infantibus 

38 De Hebdomadario Lectore 

39 De Mensura Ciborum 

40 De Mensura Potus 

41 Quibus Horis oportet reficere Fratres .... 

42 Ut post Completorium nemo loquatur 

43 De his qui ad Opus Dei vel ad mensam tarde occurrunt 

44 De his qui excommunicantur, quomodo satisfaciant 



86 

88 

90 




45 De his qui falluntur in Oratorio .... 

46 De his qui in aliis quibuslibet rebus delinquunt . 

47 De significanda hora Operis Dei .... 

48 De Opere Manuum Quotidiano . . . . 

49 De Quadragesimae Observatione .... 

50 De Fratribus qui longe ab Oratorio laborant, aut in via 

sunt 

51 De Fratribus qui non satis longe proficiscuntur . 

52 De Oratorio Monasterii 

53 De Hospitibus suscipiendis 

54 Si debet Monachus litteras vel eulogias suscipere . 

55 De Vestiariis et Calceariis Fratrum .... 

56 De Mensa Abbatis 

57 De Artificibus Monasterii 

58 De Disciplina Suscipiendorum Fratrum 

59 De Filiis Nobilium vel Pauperum qui offeruntur . 

60 De Sacerdotibus qui forte voluerint in Monasterio 

habitare 

61 De Monachis Peregrinis, qualiter suscipiantur 

62 De Sacerdotibus Monasterii 

63 De Ordine Congregationis 

64 De Ordinando Abbate 

65 De Praeposito Monasterii 



126 

126 

128 

128 

<34 

*3$ 

,3 f 

138 

144 

144 

148 

*50 



160 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




Contente xiii 



CHAP. 

26 Of those who, without leave of the Abbot, consort with 

the Excommunicate 

27 How careful the Abbot should be of the Excommuni- 

cate 

28 Of those who, being often corrected, do not amend 

29 Whether the Brethren who leave the Monastery are to 

be received again 

30 How the younger boys are to be corrected . 

31 What kind of man the Cellarer of the Monastery is to be 

32 Of the Iron Tools, and Property of the Monastery 

33 Whether M6nks ought to have anything of their own . 

34 Whether all ought alike to receive what is needful 

35 Of the Weekly Servers in the Kitchen 

36 Of the Sick Brethren 

37 Of Old Men and Children 

38 Of the Weekly Reader 

39 Of the Measure of Food 

40 Of the Measure of Drink ...... 

41 At what Hours the Brethren are to take their Meals . 

42 That no one may speak after Compline 

43 Ot those who come late to the Work of God, or to table 

44 Of those who are excommunicated, how they are to 

make satisfaction 

45 Of those who make mistakes in the Oratory 

46 Of those who offend in any other matters . 

47 Of signifying the Hour for the Work of God 

48 Of the Daily Manual Labour 

49 Of the Observance of Lent 

50 Of the Brethren who are working at a distance from 

the Oratory, or are on a journey .... 

51 Of the Brethren who go not very far off 

52 Of the Oratory of the Monastery . 

53 Of receiving Guests ....... 

54 Whether a Monk ought to receive letters or tokens 

55 Of the Clothes and Shoes of the Brethren . 

56 Of the Abbot’s Table ....... 

57 Of the Artificers of the Monastery .... 

58 Of the Discipline of receiving Brethren into Religion . 

59 Of the Sons of Nobles, or of Poor Men, that are offered 

60 Of Priests who may wish to dwell in the Monastery 



8 7 

89 

9i 

93 
93 
95 
99 
- 99 
101 
103 
107 
109 
109 
”3 
n 5 
117 
1 19 
121 



125 

127 

127 

i*9 

129 K 

135 



137 

137 

»39 

139 

145 

145 

149 

151 

153 



159 



l6l 



6 1 Of Stranger Monks, how they are to be received 

62 iOf the Priests of the Monastery . 




j 65 

167 

171 

177 



1 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




XIV 



3nfcer Captfuforuttfi 



? 



CAP. PAG. 

66 De Ostiario Monasterii 180 

6 7 De Fratribus in viam directis i 8 j 

68 Si Fratri impossibilia injungantur . . . .184 

69 Ut in Monasterio non praesumat alter alterum de- 

fendere . 184 

70 Ut non praesumat quisquam aliquem passim caedere . 186 

71 Ut obedientes sint sibi invicem Fratres . . .188 

72 De zelo bono quem debent habere Monachi . >190 

73 De hoc quod non omnis justitiae observatio in hac sit 

Regula constituta ift 






Digitized by Google 



mntentB 



XV 



CHAP. PAGE. 

66 Of the Porter of the Monastery 181 

67 Of Brethren who are sent on a journey . . .183 

68 If a Brother be commanded to do impossibilities . .185 

69 That no one presume to defend another in the 

Monastery 185 

70 That no one presume to strike another . .187 

71 That the Brethren be obedient one to the other .189 

72 Of the good zeal which Monks ought to have . . 19 1 

73 That the whole observance of perfection is not set 

down in this Rule 191 



Digitized by 



Google 




REGULA 

SANCTISSIMI 

PATRIS NOSTRI BENEDICTI. 



Digitized by Google 




THE RULE 

OF OUR MOST HOLY FATHER 
SAINT BENEDICT. 



Digitized by Google 




0>rofo0ij 



PROLOGUS 

SANCTISSIMI PATRIS NOSTRI 
BENEDICTI 

IN REGULAM SUAM. 



U SCULT A, o fili, praecepta Magi- 
stri, et inclina aurem cordis tui, 1 



et admonitionem pii Patris libenter 

i / * 

excipe, et efficaciter comple; ut ad 

r / # / 

eum, per obedientiae laborem redeas, a quo per 
inobedientiae desidiam recesseras. Ad te ergo 
nunc meus sermo dirigitur, quisquis abrenuntians 
propriis voluntatibus, Domiqo Christo vero Regi 
militaturus, obedientiae fortissima atque praeclara 
arma sumis. 

s • f/ 

In primis, ut quidquid agendum inchoas bonum, 
ab eo perfici instantissima oratione deposcas ; • ut, 
qui nos jam in filiorum dignatus est nymero c om- / 
putare, non debeat aliquando de malis actibus 



jr Google 




ofogue 



3 



PROLOGUE 

OF 

OUR MOST HOLY FATHER 
SAINT BENEDICT 



TO HIS RULE. 



B9jE4EARKEN, O my son, to the pre- 1 
h P cepts of thy Master, and incline 1 Sept> 
H MM n the ear of thine heart ; willingly receive 
and faithfully fulfil the admonition of 
thy loving Father, that thou mayest return by the 
labour of obedience to Him from Whom thou hadst 



departed through the sloth of disobedience. To 
thee, therefore, my words are now addressed, who- 
ever thou art that, renouncing thine own will, dost 
take up the strong and bright weapons of obedience, 
in order to fight for the Lord Christ, our true king. 
In the first place, whatever good work thou begin- 
nest to do, beg of Him with most earnest prayer to 
perfect; that He Who hath now vouchsafed to 
cou^t us in the number of His children may not at 




Digitized by UiOOQle 





, ' f 

nostris contristari. Ita enim ei omni tempore de 
bonis suis in, nobis parendum est ; ut non solum, 
ut iratus pater, non aliquando filios suos ex- 
haeredet ; sed nec, ut metuendus Dominus, irritatus 
malis nostris, ut nequissimos servos, perpetuam 
tradat ad poenam qui eum sequi noluerint ad 
gloriam. 



Exsurgamus ergo tandem aliquando, exci- 2 Jan, 

3 Mali 

tante nos Scriptura, ac dicente : Hora est 2 Sei*. 
jam nos de somno surgere . [Rom. xiii. 11.] Bt 
apertis oculis nostris ad deiflcum lumen, attonitis 
auribus audiamus, divina quotidie clamans quid nos 
admoneat vox dicens : Hodie si vocem ejus audie- 
ritis , nolite obdurare corda vestra . [Ps. xciv. 8 .] 
Et iterum : Qui habet aures audiendi , audiat 
quid Spiritus dicat ecclesiis . [Apoc. ii. 7.] Bt 
quid dicit ? Venite , filii , audite me ; timorem 

Domini docebo vos. [Ps. xxxiii. 12.] Currite , dtwt 
lumen vitee habetis , ne tenebree mortis vos com- 
prehendant. [Joan. xii. 35.] 



Et quaerens Dominus in multitudine po- 3 ^. 
puli, cui haec clamat, operarium suum, iterum 3 sept. 
dicit: Quis est homo , qui vult vitam , et cupit 

videre dies bonos ? [Ps. xxxiii. 13.] Quod si tu 
audiens, respondeas : Ego ; dicit tibi Deus : Si vis 
habere veram et perpetuam vitam, prohibe linguam 
tuam a malo , et labia tua ne loquantur doltlm . 
Diverte a malo , et fac bonum ; inquire pacMgm 



i 



Digitized by Google 




irofogue 



5 




any time be grieved by our evil deeds. For we 
must always so serve Him with the good things He 
hath given us, that not only may He never, as an 
angry father, disinherit His children, but may never, 
as a dreadful Lord, incensed by our sins, deliver 
us to everlasting punishment, as most wicked 
servants who would not follow Him to glory. 

Let us then at length arise, since the a^an. 
Scripture stirreth us up, saying : “ It is time l Sept, 
now for us to rise from sleep.” And our eyes being 
opened to the deifying light, let us hear with won- 
dering ears what the Divine Voice admonisheth us, 
daily crying out : “ To-day if ye shall hear His 
voice, harden not your hearts.” And again, “ He 
that hath ears to hear, let him hear what the 
Spirit saith to the churches.” And what saith 
He? “Come, my children, hearken to Me, I will 
teach you the fear of the Lord. Run while ye have 
the light of life, lest the darkness of death seize 
hold of you.” 

And the Lord, seeking His own work- 3 jan. 
man in the multitude of the people to whom 3 s4I 
He thus crieth out, saith again : “ Who is the man 
that will have life, and desireth to see good days ? ” 
And if thou, hearing Him, answer, “ I am he,” Ood 
saith to thee : “ If thou wilt have true and ever- 
lasting life, keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips 
that they speak no guile. Turn from evil, and do VL ^ 
good : seek peace and pursue it. And when you 

j 

i 



Digitized by Google 




6 



gfrofoi 

et sequere eam. [Ps. xxxiii. 14, 15.] Et cum haec 
feceritis, oculi mei super vos, et aures meae ad pre- 
ces vestras. Et antequam me invocetis, dicam: 
Ecce adsum. Quid dulcius nobis hac voce Domini 
invitantis nos, fratres charissimi ? Ecce pietate sua 
demonstrat nobis Dominus viam vitae. 

Succinctis ergo fide, vel observantia bono- 4 Jan. 

, . . . « 5 Mtii 

rum actuum lumbis nostris, per ducatum 4S«*t 
Bvangelii pergamus itinera ejus, ut mereamur eum, 
qui nos vocavit in regnum suum videre. [Bphes. vi. 
14, 15.] In cujus regni tabernaculo si volumus 
habitare, nisi illuc bonis actibus currendo, minime 
pervenitur. Sed interrogemus cum propheta Domi- 
num, dicentes ei : Domine , quis habitabit in 
tabernaculo tuo 9 aut quis requiescet in monte 
sancto tuo ? [Ps. xiv. 4.] Post hanc interroga- 
tionem, fratres, audiamus Dominum respondentem, 
et ostendentem nobis viam ipsius tabernaculi, ac 
dicentem^: Qui ingreditur sine macula 9 et opera- 
tur justitiam; qui non egit dolum in lingua 
sua; qui non fecit proximo suo malum 9 et op- 
probrium non accepit adversus proximum suum. 
[Ps. xiv. 2, 8.] Qui malignum diabolum aliqua 
suadentem sibi, cum ipsa suasione sua a con- 
spectibus cordis sui respuens, deduxit ad nihilum, 
et parvulos cogitatus ejus tenuit, et allisit ad 
Christum. [Ps. cxxxvi. 9.] 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




have done these things, My eyes will be upon you, 
and My ears will be open to your prayers ; and 
before you call upon Me, 1 will say unto you, 1 Be- 
hold, 1 am here'.” What can be sweeter to us, 
dearest brethren, than this voice of the Lord 
inviting us ? Behold in his loving kindness the 
Lord sheweth unto us the way of life. 

Having our loins, therefore, girded with 4 Jan. 
fai th, and the pe rfc^ance of good works, 4 Sept, 
let us walk in His paths by the guidance of the 
Gospel, that we may deserve to see Him Who 
hath called us to His kingdom. And if we wish 
to dwell in the tabern acle of His kingdom, we shall 
by, no means reach it unless we run thither by our 
good deeds. But let us ask the Lord with the 
"prophet^ laying to Him: “ Lord, who shall dwell 
in Thy tabernacle, or who shall rest upon Thy holy 
hill?" After this question, brethren, let us hear 
the Lord answering, and shewing to us the way 
to His tabernacle, and saying : “ He that walketh 
without stain and worketh justice : he that speaketh 
truth in his heart, that hath not done guile with 
his tongue : he that hath done no evil to his neigh- 
bour, and hath not taken up a reproach against his 
neighbour": he that hath brought the malignant 
evil one to naught, casting him out of his heart 
with all his suggestions, and hath taken his bad 
thoughts, while they were yet young, and dashed 
them down upon the (Rock) Christ. These are they, 





8 



Qui timentes Dominum, de bona observantia sua 
non se reddunt elatos, sed ipsa in se bona, non a se 
posse, sed a Domino fieri existimantes, operantem 
in se Dominum magnificant, illud cum Propheta 
dicentes : Non nobis , Domine , non nobis sed 
nomini tuo da gloriam . [Ps. cxiii. 1.] Sicut nec 
Paulus Apostolus de praedicatione sua sibi aliquid 
imputavit dicens : Gratia Dei sum id, quod sum . 

[1 Cor. xv. 10.] Et iterum ipse dicit: Qui gloria- 
tur, in Domino glorietur. [2 Cor. x. 17.] 

Unde et Dominus in Bvangelio ait: Qui 5 Tan. 

6 Mali 

audit verba mea hcec, et facit ea, similabo 5 s«pt 
eum viro sapienti, qui aedificavit domum suam 
supra petram : venerunt flumina, flaverunt venti, 
et impegerunt in domum illam, et non cecidit : fun- 
data enim erat supra petram . [Matth. vii. 24, seq.] 
Haec complens Dominus, exspectat quotidie his 
suis sanctis monitis factis nos respondere debere. 
Ideo nobis propter emendationem malorum hujus 
vitae, dies ad indueias relaxantur, dicente Apostolo : 

An nescis, quia patientia Dei ad poenitentiam te 
adducit ? [Rom. ii. 4.] Nam pius Dominus 
dicit : Nolo mortem peccatoris , sed ut convertatur, 
et vivat . [Ezech. xviii. 23.] 

Cum ergo interrogassemus Dominum, 6^. 
fratres, de habitatore tabernaculi ejus, audi- 6S«pt 
vimus habitandi praeceptum : sed si compleamus 
habitatoris officium, erimus haeredes regni coelorum. 

1j 

Digitized by Google 







who fearing the Lord, are not puffed up with their ^ 
own good works, but knowing that the good which ^ 
is in them cometh not from themselves but from 
the Lord, magnify the Lord Who worketh in them, 
saying with the prophet : “Not unto us, O Lord, 
not unto us, but unto Thy Name give the glory." 
So the Apostle Paul imputed nothing of His 
preaching to himself, but said : “ By the grace of 
God I am what 1 am." And again he saith : “ He 
that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord." 

Hence also the Lord saith in the Gos- 
pel : “ He that heareth these words of Mine, 
and doeth them, is like a wise man who built his 
house upon a rock : the floods came, the winds blew, 
and beat upon that house, and it fell not, because it 
was founded upon a rock." And the Lord in fulfil- 
ment of these His words is waiting daily for us to 
respond by our deeds to His holy admonitions. 
Therefore are the days of our life lengthened for 
the amendment of our evil ways, as saith the 
Apostle, “ Knowest thou not that the patience of 
God is leading thee to repentance?" For the 
merciful Lord saith: “I will not the death of a 
sinner, but that he should be converted and live." 

Since then, brethren, we have asked of the 6 jan. 
Lord who is to inhabit His temple, we have 6Sep?. 
heard His commands to those who are to dwell 
thdre : and if we fulfil those duties, we shall be 

i 



5 Jan. 

6 May 
5 Sept. 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




Ergo praeparanda sunt corda et corpora nostra 
sanctae praeceptorum obedientiae militanda ; et quod 
minus habet in nobis natura possibile, rogemus 
Dominum, ut gratiae suae jubeat nobis adjutorium 
ministrare. Et si fugientes gehennae poenas ad 
vitam volumus pervenire perpetuam, dum adhuc 
vacat, et in hoc corpore sumus, et haec omnia per 
hanc lucis viam vacat implere, currendum et agen- 
dum est modo, quod in perpetuum nobis expediat. 

Constituenda est ergo nobis Dominici 7jan. 

. , .... ... .... 8 Maii 

schola servitu; in qua institutione nihil 7Sept. 
asperum, nihil grave nos constituturos speramus. 
Sed et si quid paululum restrictius, dictante aequi- 
tatis ratione, propter emendationem vitiorum, vel 
conservationem caritatis processerit, non illico 
pavore perterritus refugias viam salutis, quae non 
est nisi angusto initio incipienda. Processu vero 
conversationis et fidei, dilatato corde, inenarrabili 
dilectionis dulcedine curritur via mandatorum Dei ; 
ut ab ipsius nunquam magisterio discedentes, in 
ejus doctrina usque ad mortem in monasterio per- 
severantes, passionibus Christi per patientiam par- 
ticipemus, ut et regni ejus mereamur esse consortes. 
Arnen. 




Digitized by Google 



r 



]C 

(1 

[U • 
k 

$ 

at 



ft 

Sc, 

k m f 

seq 

a, 

itf 

c f 
a * 
L rra 
B> 
tes 
io f 
.m ! 

isoi* 



11 



heirs of the kingdom of heaven. Our hearts, there- 
fore, and our bodies must be made ready to fight 
under the holy obedience of His commands ; and 
let us ask God to supply by the help of His grace 
what by nature is not possible to us. And if we 
would arrive at eternal life, escaping the pains of 
hell, then — while there is yet time, while we are 
still in the flesh, and are able to fulfil all these 
things by the light which is given us — we must 
hasten to do now what will profit us for all eternity. 

We have, therefore, to establish a 7 Jan . ^ , 
school of the Lord's service, in the setting 7 s 4^ 
forth of which we hope to order nothing that is . 
harsh or rigorous. But if anything be somewhat 
strictly laid down, according to the dictates of 
sound reason, for the amendment of vices or the 
preservation of charity, do not therefore fly in 
dismay from the way of salvation, whose beginning 
cannot but be strait and difficult. But as we go' 
forward in our life and in faith, we shall with hearts 
enlarged and unspeakable sweetness of love run in 
the way of God's commandments ; so that never de- 
parting from His guidance, but persevering in His 
teaching in the monastery until death, we may by 
patience share in the sufferings of Christ, that we 
may deserve to be partakers of His kingdom. Amen. 







i 



Digitized by Google 




12 



(ge$ufa £. <gm 



CAPUT I. 

Db Generibus Monachorum. 




ONACHORUM quatuor esse gene- 
ra manifestum est. Primum 8S «pt* 
Coenobitarum, hoc est, monasteriale, 
militans sub regula vel Abbate. Deinde 
secundum genus est Anachoretarum, id est, Eremi- 
tarum, horum qui non conversationis fervore novitio, 
sed monasterii probatione diuturna, didicerunt con- 
tra diabolum, multorum solatio jam docti, pugnare ; 
et bene instructi fraterna ex acie ad singularem 
pugnam eremi securi jam sine consolatione alterius, 
sola manu vel brachio, contra vitia carnis vel 
cogitationum, Deo auxiliante, pugnare sufficiunt. 
Tertium vero monachorum deterrimum genus est 
Sarabaitarum, qui nulla regula approbati, experi- 
entia magistra, sicut aurum fornacis, sed in plumbi 
natura molliti, adhuc operibus servantes saeculo 
fidem, mentiri Deo per tonsuram noscuntur. Qui 
bini aut terni, aut certe singuli sine pastore, non 



/ Google 



(gtlfe of Jit. Qgenefctcf 



13 



CHAPTER 1. 

Of the several kinds of Monks and their 

WAY OF LIFE. 



is well known that there are 8 jan. 

9 May 

four kinds of monks. The first 8Se P t. 
are the Cenobites : that is those in 
monasteries, who live under a rule or 
an Abbot. The second are the Anchorites or 
Hermits : that is those who, not in the first 
fervour of religious life, but after long probation 
in the monastery, have learned by the help and 
experience of many to fight against the devil ; 
and going forth well armed from the ranks of 
their brethren to the single-handed combat of the 
desert, are able, without the support of others, 
to fight by the strength of their own arm, God 
helping them, against the vices of the flesh and 
their evil thoughts. A third and most baneful 
kind of monks are the Sarabites, who have been 




tried by no rule nor by the experience of a master, 




as gold in the furnace ; but, being as soft as lead, 
and still serving the world in their works, are known 
by their tonsure to lie to God. These in twos or 
threes, or even singly, without a shepherd, shut up, 
not in the Lord's sheepfolds, but in their own, 



Digitized by Vj 





14 



(Segttfa £' $ened$cft 



Dominicis, sed suis inclusi ovilibus, pro lege eis est 
desideriorum voluptas : cum quicquid putaverint 
vel elegerint, hoc dicunt sanctum, et quod noluerint, 
hoc putant non licere. 

Quartum vero genus est monachorum, quod 
nominatur Gyrovagum, qui tota vita sua per diver- 
sas provincias ternis aut quaternis diebus per diver- 
sorum cellas hospitantur, semper vagi et nunquam 
stabiles, et propriis voluptatibus et gulae illecebris 
servientes, et per omnia deteriores Sarabaitis ; de 
quorum omnium horum miserrima conversatione 
melius est silere, quam loqui. His ergo omissis, ad 
Coenobitarum fortissimum genus* disponendum, ad- 
juvante Domino, veniamus. 



CAPUT II. 

Qualis bssb dbbbat Abbas. 

BBAS, qui praeesse dignus est Qjan. 

. . . io Maii 

monasterio, semper meminisse 9 Sept. 
debet, quod dicitur, et nomen majoris 
factis implere. Christi enim agere 
vices in monasterio creditur, quando ipsius vocatur 
praenomine, dicente Apostolo : Accepistis spiritum 
adoptionis filiorum , in quo clamamus , Abba , 
Pater . [Rom. viii. 15.] Ideoque Abbas nihil extra 
praeceptum Domini (quod absit) debet docere, aut 
*Note A . — Fortissimum genus . ) 





QJufe of JJf. Qpenebtcf 



15 



make a law to themselves in the pleasure of their 
own desires: whatever they think fit or choose to 
do, that they call holy ; and what they like not, 
that they consider unlawful. 

The fourth kind of monks are those called 
44 Girovagi," who spend all their lives long wander- 
ing about divers provinces, staying in different cells 
for three or four days at a time, ever roaming, with 
no stability, given up to their own pleasures and to 
the snares of gluttony, and worse in all things than 
the Sarabites. Of the most wretched life of these 
it is better to say nothing than to speak. Leaving 
them alone therefore, let us set to work, by the 
help of God, to lay down a rule for the Cenobites, 
that is, the strongest* kind of monks. 

CHAPTER II. 

What kind of man the Abbot ought to be. 

N Abbot who is worthy to rule 9 
over the monastery ought always *9 Sep?, 
to remember what he is called, and 
correspond to his name of superior by 
his deeds. Por he is believed to hold the place of 
Christ in the monastery, since he is called by His 
name, as the Apostle saith : “ Ye have received the 
spirit of the adoption of children, in which we cry 
Abba, Father." And therefore the Abbot ought not 
(God forbid) to teach, or ordain, or command any- ^ 




Digitized by Google 



16 



(gegufft £. (genefctefi 



constituere, vel jubere : sed jussio ejus vel doctrina 
fermentum divinas justitias in discipulorum mentibus 
conspergatur. 

Memor sit semper Abbas quia doctrinas iojan. 

. . ... 11 May 

suas vel discipulorum obedientiae, utrarum- ioScpt. 
que rerum in tremendo judicio Dei facienda erit 
discussio, sciatque Abbas, culpas pastoris incum- 
bere, quicquid in ovibus paterfamilias utilitatis 
minus potuerit invenire. Tantumdem iterum erit 
\ liber, ut si inquieto vel inobedienti gregi pastoris 
fuerit omnis diligentia attributa, et morbida earum 
actibus universa fuerit cura exhibita, pastor earum 
jin judicio Domini absolutus, dicat cum Propheta 
Domino : Justitiam tuam non abscondi in corde 
meo , veritatem tuam , et salutare tuum dixi; ipsi 
autem contemnentes spreverunt me . [Ps. xxxix. 1 1 ; 
Is. i. 2.] Et tunc demum inobedientibus curas suas 
ovibus poena sit eis praevalens ipsa mors. 



Ergo cum aliquis suscipit nomen Abbatis, n jan. 
duplici debet doctrina suis praeesse discipulis ; « s4£ 
id est, omnia bona et sancta factis amplius quam 
verbis ostendere, ut capacibus discipulis mandata 
Domini verbis proponat : duris vero corde et simpli- 
cioribus, factis suis divina praecepta demonstret. 



Digitized by Google 





QJufe of J$f. (^eneiicf 



17 



contrary to the law of the Lord ; but let his bidding 
and his doctrine be infused into the minds of his 
disciples like the leaven of divine justice. 

Let the Abbot be ever mindful that at the IO j an . 
dreadful judgment of God an account will 10 Sept, 
have to be given both of his own teaching and of 
the obedience of his disciples. And let him know 
that to the fault of the shepherd shall be imputed 
any lack of profit which the father of the household 
may find in his sheep. Only then shall he be ac- 
quitted, if he shall have bestowed all pastoral dili- 
gence on his unquiet and disobedient flock, and 
employed all his care to amend their corrupt 
manner of life: then shall he be absolved in the 
judgment of the Lord, and may say to the Lord 
with the prophet : “ I have not hidden Thy justice 
in my heart, I have declared Thy truth and Thy 
salvation, but they contemned and despised me/* 
And then at length the punishment of death shall 
be inflicted on the disobedient sheep. 

Therefore, when any one receiveth the «jam 
name of Abbot, he ought to govern his dis- ii SepU 
ciples by a two-fold teaching : that is, he should 
shew forth all goodness and holiness by his deeds 
rather than his words : declaring to the intelligent 
among his disciples the commandments of the 
Lord by words : but to the hard-hearted and the 
simple-minded setting forth the divine precepts by 



Digitized by Google 





18 



(gegufa J$. #enefctcft 



Omnia vero quae discipulis docuerit esse contra- 
ria, in suis factis indicet non agenda ; ne aliis prae- 
dicans, ipse reprobus inveniatur (1 Cor. ix. 27). Ne 
quando illi dicat Deus peccanti : Quare tu enarras 
justitias meas , et assumis testamentum meum per 
os tuum ? tu vero odisti disciplinam , et projecisti 
sermones meos post te. [Ps. xlix. 16, 17.] Et, Qui 
in fratris tui oculo festucam videbas , in tuo trabem 
non vidisti ? [Matth. vii. 3.] 



Non ab eo persona in monasterio discerna- ia Jan. 
tur. Non unus plus ametur quam alius, nisi «Sept. 
quem in bonis actibus, aut obedientia invenerit 
meliorem. Non convertenti ex servitio praeponatur 
ingenuus, nisi alia rationabilis causa exsistat. Quod 
si ita, justitia dictante, Abbati visum fuerit, et de 
cujuslibet ordine id faciat ; sin alias, propria teneant 
loca : quia sive servus, sive liber, omnes in Christo 
unum sumus, et sub uno Domino aequalem servi- 
tutis militiam bajulamus : Quia non est persona- 
rum acceptio apud Deum . [Ephes. vi. 9.] So- 
lummodo in hac parte apud ipsum discernimur, si 
meliores ab aliis in operibus bonis, et humiles in- 
veniamur. Ergo aequalis sit omnibus ab eo caritas ; 
una praebeatur omnibus secundum merita disciplina. 



Digitized by Google 





QJwfe of £f. (genefctcf 



19 



the example of his deeds. And let him shew by his 
own actions that those things ought not to be done 
which he has taught his disciples to be against the 
law of God ; lest, while preaching to others, he 
should himself become a castaway, and God should 
say to him in his sin : “ Why dost thou declare 
My justice, and take My covenant in thy mouth ? 
Thou hast hated discipline, and hast cast My words 
behind thee.” And again, “ Thou who sawest the 
mote in thy brothers eye, didst thou not see the 
beam in thine own ? ” 

Let him make no distinction of persons in 12 Jan. 

J3 

the monastery. Let not one be loved more « Sept, 
than another, unless he be found to excel in good'' 
works or in obedience. Let not one of noble birth 
be put before him that was formerly a slave, unless 
some other reasonable cause exist for it. But if 
upon just consideration it should so seem good to 
the Abbot, let him arrange as he please concerning 
the place of any one whomsoever ; but, otherwise, 
let them keep their own places ; because, whether 
bond or free, we are all one in Christ, and bear an 
equal rank in the service of one Lord : “ for with / 
God there is no respecting of persons.” Only for 
one reason are we preferred in His sight, if we be 
found to surpass others in good works and in 
humility. Let the Abbot, then, shew equal love to 
all, and let the same discipline be imposed upon all ; 
according to their deserts. 



Digitized by Google 




20 



(gegufa £. (fenefeicft 



In doctrina sua namque Abbas Apostolicam x 3 Tan. 

..... _ . 14 Maii 

debet illam semper formam servare, in qua i 3 Se P t. 
dicitur: Argue, obsecra, increpa : [2 Tim. iv. 2] 
id est, miscens temporibus tempora, terroribus 
blandimenta : dirum magistri, pium patris ostendat 
affectum : id est, indisciplinatos et inquietos debet 
durius arguere; obedientes autem, et mites et 
patientes, ut melius proficiant, obsecrare. Negli- 
gentes autem et contemnentes, ut increpet et 
corripiat, admonemus. Neque dissimulet peccata 
delinquentium, sed mox, ut coeperint oriri, radi- 
citus ea, ut praevalet, amputet : memor periculi 
Heli sacerdotis de Silo. [1 Reg. ii. 12, seq.] Et 
honestiores quidem, atque intelligibiles animos, 
prima vel secunda admonitione verbis corripiat; 
improbos autem, et duros, ac superbos, vel in- 
obedientes, verberum vel corporis castigatione in 
ipso initio peccati coerceat, sciens scriptum : Stul- 
tus verbis non corrigitur . [Prov. xxiii. 13.] Et 
iterum: Percute filium tuum virga, et liberabis 
animam ejus a morte . [Ibid. 14.] 



Meminisse debet semper Abbas quod est, i 4 Jan. 

. . .... . . . 15 Maii 

meminisse quod dicitur, et scire quia cui i 4 Se P t. 
plus committitur, plus ab eo exigitur; sdatque 
quam difficilem et arduam rem suscepit, regere 
animas, et multorum servire moribus. Et alium 



Digitized by Google 





QJufe of JJt. #enefctcf 



21 



Por the Abbot in his doctrine ought always 13 ^an. 
to observe the bidding of the Apostle, where- I3 Sept 
in he says : “ Reprove, entreat, rebuke ” : mingling, 
as occasions may require, gentleness with severity ; 
shewing now the rigour of a master, now the loving 
affection of a father, so as sternly to rebuke the 
undisciplined and restless, and to exhort the obe- 
dient, mild, and patient to advance in virtue. And 
such as are negligent and haughty we charge him 
to reprove and correct. Let him not shut his eyes 
to the faults of offenders ; but as soon as they 
appear, let him strive with all his might to root 
them out, remembering the fate of Heli, the priest 
of Silo. Those of good disposition and under- 
standing let him, for the first or second time, 
correct only with words ; but such as are froward 
and hard of heart, and proud, or disobedient, let 
him chastise with bodily stripes at the very first 
offence, knowing that it is written : “ The fool is 
not corrected with words.” And again : “ Strike 
thy son with the rod, and thou shalt deliver his 
soul from death.” 

The Abbot ought always to remember X4 jan. 
what he is, and what he is called, and to X4 Sept 
know that to whom more is committed, from him 
more is required ; and he must consider how diffi- 
cult and arduous a task he hath undertaken, of 
ruling souls and adapting himself to many disposi- 



Digitized by Google 





22 



(JJegufa Q^ene^tcft 

quidem blandimentis, alium vero increpationibus, 
alium suasionibus, et secundum uniuscujusque 
qualitatem vel intelligentiam, ita se omnibus con- 
formet et aptet, ut non solum detrimenta gregis 
sibi commissi non patiatur, verum etiam in aug- 
mentatione boni gregis gaudeat. 



Ante omnia, ne dissimulans, aut parvipen- i S jan. 
dens salutem animarum sibi commissarum, l 5 Sep“ 
plus gerat sollicitudinem de rebus transitoriis, et 
terrenis atque caducis; sed semper cogitet quia 
animas suscepit regendas, de quibus et rationem 
redditurus est. Et ne causetur de minori forte 
substantia, meminerit scriptum : Primum qucerite 
regnum Dei , et justitiam ejus , et hcec omnia adji- 
cientur vobis . [Matt. vi. 33.] Et iterum : Nihil 
deest timentibus eum . [Ps. xxxiii. 19.] 



Sciatque quia, qui suscipit animas regendas, 
paret se ad rationem reddendam. Et quantum 
sub cura sua fratrum se habere scierit numerum, 
agnoscat pro certo, quia in die judicii ipsarum 
omnium animarum est redditurus Domino ratio- 
nem, sine dubio addita et suae animae. Et ita 
timens semper futuram discussionem Pastoris de 
creditis ovibus, cum de alienis ratiociniis cavet, 



Dtg K i zuE hby Google 





(gufe of (genefctcf 



23 



tions. Let him so accommodate and suit himself 
to the character and intelligence of each, winning 
some by kindness, others by reproof, others by 
persuasion, that he may not only suffer no loss in 
the flock committed to him, but may even rejoice 
in their virtuous increase. 

Above all let him not, overlooking or 15 Jan. 
undervaluing the salvation of the souls en- JsScpt. 
trusted to him, be too solicitous for fleeting, earthly, 
and perishable things; but let him ever bear in 
mind that he hath undertaken the government of 
souls, of which he shall have to give an account. 
And that he may not complain for want of worldly 
substance, let him remember what is written : 

“ Seek first the kingdom of God and His justice, 
and all these things shall be added unto you.*’ 
And again : “ Nothing is wanting to them that fear 
Him.** 

And let him know that he who hath undertaken 
the government of souls, must prepare himself to 
render an account of them. And whatever may be 
the number of the brethren under his care, let him 
be certainly assured that on the Day of Judgment 
he will have to give an account to the Lord of all 
these souls, as well as of his own. And thus, 1 
being ever fearful of the coming inquiry which the 
Shepherd will make into the state of the flock 
committed to him, while he is careful on other 
men’s account, he will be solicitous also on his 



Digitized by Google 




24 QJeguf» JJ. $enebteft 

redditur de suis sollicitus. Et cum de monitioni- 
bus suis emendationem aliis subministrat, ipse 
quoque efficitur a vitiis emendatus. 



CAPUT III. 



Db adhibendis ad Consilium Fratribus. 



UOT1ES aliqua praecipua agenda iisjan. 
sunt in monasterio, convocet ll stpl. 
Abbas omnem congregationem, et dicat 
ipse unde agitur. Et audiens consi- 
lium fratrum, tractet apud se, et quod utilius judi- 
caverit faciat. Ideo autem omnes ad consilium 
vocari diximus : quia saepe juniori Dominus revelat 
quod melius est. Sic autem dent fratres consilium 
cum omni humilitatis subjectione, ut non praesu- 
mant procaciter defendere quod eis visum fuerit, 
sed magis in Abbatis pendeat arbitrio, ut quod 
salubrius esse judicaverit, ei cuncti obediant : sed 
sicut discipulis convenit obedire magistro; ita et 
ipsum provide, et juste condecet cuncta disponere. 



In omnibus igitur omnes magistram se- I7 j an . 
quantur regulam, neque ab ea temere de- 
clinetur a quoquam. Nullus in monasterio proprii 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




(gufe of jSf. Qljene&tcf 



25 



own. And so, while correcting others by his 
admonitions, he will be himself cured of his own 
defects. 



CHAPTER III. 

Of calling the Brethren to Council. 

S often as any important matters 16 jfan. 
have to be transacted in the J6Sept. 
monastery, let the Abbot call together 
the whole community, and himself 
declare what is the question to be settled. And, 
having heard the counsel of the brethren, let him 
consider within himself, and then do what he shall 
judge most expedient. We have said that all 
should be called to council, because it is often to 
the younger that the Lord revealeth what is best. 
But let the brethren give their advice with all 
subjection and humility, and not presume stub- 
bornly to defend their own opinion ; but rather 
let the matter rest with the Abbot's discretion, that 
all may submit to whatever he shall judge to be best. 
Yet, even as it becometh disciples to obey their 
master, so doth it behove him to order all things 
prudently and with justice. 

Let all, therefore, follow the Rule in all i^an. 
things as their guide, and let no man rashly ‘7 sip?, 
turn aside from it. Let no one in the monastery 




Digitized by Google 




26 



(gegufft JU. Qgenebieft 



sequatur cordis voluntatem, neque praesumat quis- 
quam cum Abbate suo proterve intus, aut foris 
monasterium contendere. Quod si praesumpserit, 
regulari disciplinae subjaceat. Ipse tamen Abbas 
cum timore Dei, et observatione regulae omnia 
faciat; sciens se procul dubio de omnibus judiciis 
suis aequissimo Judici Deo rationem redditurum. 
Si qua vero minora agenda sunt in monasterii 
utilitatibus, seniorum tantum utatur consilio, sicut 
scriptum est : Omnia fac cum consilio, et post 
factum non pcenitebis . [Eccli. xxxii. 24.] 



CAPUT IV. 



Qu« sint Instrumenta Bonorum Operum. 




/ / 

primis, Dominum Deum dili- i8Tan. 

t ' , ig Maii 

gere ex toto corde, tota anima, i§Sept 
tota virtute. 

2. Deinde proximum tamquam teip- 



sum. 

/ / 

3. Deinde non occidere. 

4. Non adulterari. 

5. Non facere furtum. 

6. Non concupiscere. y 

7. Non falsum testimonium dicere. 

8. Honorare omnes hbmines. 



Digitized by Google 




QJttfe of gt (genebki 



27 



follow the will of his own heart : nor let any one 
presume insolently to contend with his Abbot, 
either within or without the monastery. But if 
he should so presume, let him be subjected to 
the discipline appointed by the Rule. The Abbot- 
himself, however, must do everything with the fear 
of God and in observance of the Rule : knowing 
that he will have without doubt to render to God, 
the most just Judge, an account of all his judgments. 
If it happen that less important matters have to be 
transacted for the good of the monastery, let him 
take counsel with the Seniors only, as it is written : 

“ Do all things with counsel, and thou shalt not 
afterwards repent it.” 



CHAPTER IV. 

What are the Instruments of Good Works. 

the first place, to love the i8jan. 
Lord God with all one's heart, Sept, 
all one's soul, and all one's strength. 

2. Then, one's neighbour as oneself. 

3. Then not to kill. 

4. Not to commit adultery. 

5. Not to steal. 

6. Not to covet. 

7. Not to bear false witness. 

8. To honour all men. 




Digitized by Google 





28 



(gesufo ®enebicf{ 

• / / j " 

, 9. Gt quod sibi quis neri non vult, alii non 
faciat. 

10 / Abnegare aemetipsum sibi, ut sequatur 
Christum. 

11. Corpus castigare. 

12. Delicias non amplecti. 

t .j . f 

13. Jejunium amare. 

14. Pauperes recreare. 

15. Nucjum vestire. 

16. Infirmum visitare. 

^ j 

17. Mortuum sepelire. 

18. In tribulatione subvenire. 

/ f 

19. Dolentem consolari. 

r r t 

20. A saeculi actibus se facere alienum. 

21. Nihil amori Christi praeponere. 

/ 

22. Iram non perficere. i 9 jan. 

. ' .. / 20 Maii 

23. Iracundiae tempus non reservare. 19 Sept 

24. Dolum in corde non tenere. 

25. Pacem falsam non dare. 

26. Caritatem non derelinquere. 

27. Non jurare, ne forte perjuret. 

28. Veritatem ex corde, et ore proferre. 

29. Malum pro malo non recidere. 

30. Injuriam non facere, sed factam patienter 
sufferre. 

/ / 

31. Inimicos diligere. 

32. Maledicentes se non remaledicere, sed magis 
benedicere. 

* / > 

33. Persecutionem pro justitia sustinere. 



Digitized by v^ooQle 





(gufe of J$f. ®enebtcf 



29 



9. Not to do to another what one would not 
have done to oneself. 

10. To deny oneself, in order to follow Christ. 

11. To chastise the body. 

*'12. Not to seek after delicate living. 

13. To love fasting?^ 

14. To relieve the poor. 

15. To clothe the naked. 

16. To visit the sick. 

17. To bury the dead. 

18. To help in affliction. 

19. To console the sorrowing. 

^20. To keep aloof from worldly actions. 

21. To prefer nothing to the love of Christ. 

22. Not to give way to anger. 

23. Not to harbour a desire of revenge. 

24. Not to foster guile in one's heart. 

25. Not to make a feigned peace. 

26. Not to forsake charity. 

27. Not to swear, lest perchance one 
oneself. 

28. To utter truth from heart and mouth. 

29. Not to render evil for evil. 

30. To do no wrong to any one, yea, to bear 
patiently wrong done to oneself. 

31. To love one's enemies. 

32. Not to render cursing for cursing, but rather 
blessing. 

33. To bear persecution for justice sake. 



19 Tan. 

20 May 
19 Sept. 



forswear 



Digitized by Google 





30 



(gegufft (genebtcft 



34. Non esse superbum. 

35. Non vinolentum. 

/ / 

36. Non multum edacem. 

37. Non somnolentum. 

38. Non pigrum. 

39. Non murmurosum. 

40. Non detractorem. 

41. Spem suam Deo committere. 

42. Bonum aliquod in se cum viderit, Deo appli- 

/ / 

cet, nonjsibi. ^ 

43. Malum vero semper a se factum sciat, et 
sibi reputet. 



44. Diem judicii timere. aoTan. 

/ 2i Maii 

45. Gehennam expavescere. 20 Sept. 

46. Vitam aeternam omni concupiscentia spiri- 

tuali desiderare. 

47. Mortem quotidie ante oculos suspectam 
habere. 

48. Actus vitae suae omni hora custodire. 

49. In omni loco Deum se respicere, pro certo 
scire. 

50. Cogitationes malas cordi suo advenientes 
mox ad Christum allidere : 

51. Et seniori spirituali patefacere, 

52. Os suum a malo, vel pravo eloquio custodire. 

53. Multum loqui non amare. 



Digitized. by v^ooQle 



(gufe of J$f. $ene$tcf 



31 



34. Not to be proud. 

35. Not given to wine. 

36. Not a glutton. 

37. Not drowsy. 

38. Not slothful. 

39. Not a murmurer. 

40. Not a detractor. 

41. To put one's hope in God. 

] 42, To attribute any good that one sees in one- 
self to God, and not to oneself. 

43. But to recognise and always impute to one- 
self the evil that one doth. 

44. To fear the Day of Judgment. ao Tan. 

45. To be in dread of hell. £ Sept. 

46. To desire with all spiritual longing everlasting 
life. 

47. To keep death daily before one's eyes. 

48. To keep guard at all times over the actions 
of one's life. 

49. To know for certain that God sees one every- 
where. 

50. To dash down on the (Rock) Christ one's evil 
thoughts, the instant that they come into the 
heart : 

51. And to lay them open to one’s spiritual 
father. 

52. To keep one's mouth from evil and wicked 
words. 

✓ 53. Not to love much speaking. 



y Google 




32 



QJegufa #enebteft 



54. Verba vana aut risui apta non loqui. 

55. Risum multum aut excussum non amare. 

56. Lectiones sanctas libenter audire. 

57. Orationi frequenter incumbere. 

58. Mala sua praeterita cum lacrimis vel gemitu 
quotidie in oratione Deo confiteri, et de ipsis malis 
de caetero emendare. 

59. Desideria carnis non perficere : voluntatem 
propriam odire. 

60. Praeceptis Abbatis in omnibus obedire, etiam 
si ipse aliter (quod absit) agat, memores illud 
Dominicum praeceptum : Quce dicunt , facite , quee 
autem faciunt , facere nolite . [Matth. xxiii. 3.] 

61. Non velle dici sanctum, antequam sit, sed 
prius esse, quo verius dicatur. 



62. Praecepta Dei factis quotidie adim- 2i Jan._ 

22 Maii 

plere. 21 Sept. 

63. Castitatem amare. 

64. Nullum odire. 

65. Zelum et invidiam non habere. 

66. Contentionem non amare. 

67. Elationem fugere. 

68. Seniores venerari. 

69. Juniores diligere. 

70. In Christi amore pro inimicis orare. 



Digitized by Google 




(gufe of |St. $enebtcf 



33 



54. Not to speak vain words or such as move to 
laughter. 

55. Not to love much or excessive laughter. 

56. To listen willingly to holy reading. 

57. To apply oneself frequently to prayer. 

58. Daily to confess one’s past sins with tears 
and sighs to God, and to amend them for the time 
to come. 

•^ 59. Not to fulfil the desires of the flesh : to hate ’ 
one’s own will. 

60. To obey in all things the commands of the 
Abbot, even though he himself (which God forbid) 
should act otherwise : being mindful of that precept 
of the Lord : 14 What they say, do ye ; but what 
they do, do ye not.” 

61. Not to wish to be called holy before one is 
so : but first to be holy, that one may be truly so 
called. 

62. Daily to fulfil by one’s deeds the com - 2 i Jan. 

22 May 

mandments of God. s ep t. 

63. To love chastity. 

64. To hate no man. 

65. Not to give way to jealousy and envy. 

66. Not to love strife. 

67. To fly from vainglory. 

68. To reverence the Seniors. 

69. To love the juniors. 

70. To pray for one’s enemies in the love of 
Christ, 



Digitized by Google 




34 QJegufft £. ( genebteft 

71. Cum discordante ante solis occasum in pacem 
redire. 

72. Et de Dei misericordia nunquam desperare. 

Bcce haec sunt instrumenta artis spiritualis : 
quae cum fuerint a nobis die noctuque incessa- 
biliter adimpleta, et in die judicii reconsignata, illa 
merces nobis a Domino recompensabitur, quam 
ipse promisit : Quod oculus non vidit , nec auris 
audivit, nec in cor hominis ascendit, qucz prcepar- 
avit Deus his qui diligunt eum. [1 Cor. ii. 9.] 
Officina vero, ubi haec omnia diligenter operemur, 
claustra sunt monasterii, et stabilitas in congrega- 
tione. 



CAPUT V. 

De Obedibntia. 

RIMUS humilitatis gradus est 22 jTan.. 
obedientia sine mora. Haec alsep* 
convenit his, qui nihil sibi Christe 
carius existimant, propter sanctum 
servitium quod professi sunt, seu propter metum 
gehennae, vel gloriam vitae aeternae ; mox ut aliquic 




Digitized by Google 





®ufe of #£ (£enebtcf 



35 



71. To make peace with an adversary before the 
setting of the sun. 

72. And never to despair of the mercy of God. 

Behold, these are the tools of the spiritual craft, 
which, if they be constantly employed day and 
night, and duly given back on the day of judgment, 
will gain for us from the Lord that reward which 
He Himself hath promised — “ which eye hath not 
seen, nor ear heard ; nor hath it entered into the 
heart of man to conceive what God hath prepared 
for them that love Him/' And the workshop 
where we are to labour at all these things is the 
cloister of the monastery, and stability in the 
community. 



CHAPTER V. 

Op Obedience. 

|HB first degree of humility is 22 ^an. 
obedience without delay. This 22 Sept. ( 
becometh those who hold nothing 
dearer to them than Christ, and who 
on account of the holy servitude which they have 
taken upon them, either for fear of hell or for the 
glory of life everlasting, as soon as anything is 
ordered by the superior, suffer no more delay in 




Digitized by Google 




36 



(gegufft #enefcicft 



imperatum a majore fuerit, ac si divinitus imper- 
etur, moram pati nesciunt in faciendo. De quibus 
Dominus dicit: In auditu auris obedivit mihi . 
[Ps. xvii. 45.] Et item dicit doctoribus : Qui vos 
audit , me audit . [Luc. x. 16.] 

Ergo hi tales relinquentes statim quae sua sunt, 
et voluntatem propriam deserentes, mox exoccupa- 
tis manibus, et quod agebant imperfectum relin- 
quentes, vicino obedientiae pede jubentis vocem 
factis sequuntur ; et veluti uno momento praedicta 
Magistri jussio, et perfecta discipuli opera, in velo- 
citate timoris Dei, ambae res communiter citius ex- 
plicantur, quibus ad vitam aeternam gradiendi amor 
incumbit. Ideo angustam viam arripiunt : unde 
Dominus dicit: Angusta via est , quce ducit ad 
vitam ; [Matth. vii. 14.] ut non suo arbitrio viven- 
tes, vel desideriis suis, et voluptatibus obedientes, 
sed ambulantes alieno judicio et imperio, in coeno- 
biis degentes, Abbatem sibi praeesse desiderant. 
Sine dubio hi tales illam Domini sententiam imi- 
tantur, qua dicit : Non veni facere voluntatem 
meam , sed ejus qui misit me. [Joan. v. 30.] 



Sed haec ipsa obedientia tunc accepta- 2 3 jan ; 
bilis erit Deo, et dulcis hominibus, si quod 23 Sept. 
jubetur, non trepide, non tarde, non tepide, aut 
cum murmurio, vel cum responso nolentis effici- 



Digitized by Google 




(gufe of £f. Q$ene)icf 



37 



doing it than if it had been commanded by God 
Himself. It is of these that the Lord saith : “ At 
the hearing of the ear he hath obeyed Me/* And, 
again, to teachers He saith : “ He that heareth 
you heareth Me.” 

Such as these, therefore, leaving immediately 
their own occupations and forsaking their own will, 
with their hands disengaged, and leaving unfinished 
what they were about, with the speedy step of 
obedience follow by their deeds the voice of him 
who commands ; and so as it were at the same 
instant the bidding of the master and the perfect 
fulfilment of the disciple are joined together in the 
swiftness of the fear of God by those who are 
moved with the desire of attaining eternal life. 
These, therefore, choose the narrow way, of which 
the Lord saith : Narrow is the way which 

leadeth unto life ” ; so that living not by their own 
will, nor obeying their own desires and pleasures, 
but walking according to the judgment and command 
of another, and dwelling in community, they desire 
to have an Abbot over them. Such as these with- 
out doubt fulfil that saying of the Lord : “I came 
not to do Mine own will, but the will of Him Who 
sent Me." 

But this very obedience will then only be 23 Tan. 
acceptable to God and sweet to men, if what 23 s« P t. 
is commanded be done not fearfully, tardily, nor 
coldly, nor with murmuring, nor with an answer, 



Digitized by Google 





38 



(gegufa $enebfcft 



atur ,* quia obedientia, quae majoribus praebetur, 
Deo exhibetur. Ipse enim dixit : Qui vos audit , 
me audit . [Luc. x. 16.] Bt cum bono animo a 
discipulis praeberi oportet, quia hilarem datorem 
diligit Deus . [2 Cor. ix. 7.] Nam cum malo 

animo si obedit discipulus, et non solum ore, sed 
etiam corde si murmuraverit, etsi impleat jus- 
sionem, tamen acceptus jam non erit Deo, qui cor 
respicit murmurantis. Bt pro tali facto nullam 
consequitur gratiam ; imo poenam murmurantium 
incurrit, si non cum satisfactione emendaverit. 



CAPUT VI. 

De Taciturnitate. 

ACIAMUS quod ait Propheta: 2 4 jan. 

25 Maii 

Dixi , custodiam vias meas , ut 24 Sept. 
non delinquam in lingua mea : posui 
ori meo custodiam : obmutui , et humi - 
liatus sum 9 et silui a bonis . [Ps. xxxviii. 2, 3.] 
Hic ostendit Propheta, si bonis eloquiis interdum 
propter taciturnitatem debet tacere, quanto magis 
a malis verbis propter poenam peccati debet cessari ? 
Ergo, quamvis de bonis et sanctis ad aedificationem 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




(gufe of |Sf. (genebtcf 



39 



shewing unwillingness ; for the obedience which is 
given to superiors is given to God, since He Him- 
self hath said : 44 He that heareth you, heareth 

Me/’ And it ought to be given by disciples with a 
good will, because 44 God loveth a cheerful giver.” 
For if the disciple obey with ill-will, and murmur 
not only with his lips but even in his heart, although 
he fulfil the command, yet it will not be accepted 
by God, Who regardeth the heart of the murmurer. 
And for such an action he shall gain no reward; 
nay, rather, he shall incur the punishment due to 
murmurers, unless he amend and make satisfaction. 



CHAPTER VI. 




Of the Practice of Silence, 

ET us do as saith the prophet : 24 jan. 

44 1 said, I will take heed to my 24 s4J. 
ways, that I sin not with my tongue, I 
have placed a watch over my mouth ; 

I became dumb and was silent, and held my peace 
even from good things.” Here the prophet sheweth^ 
that if we ought at times to refrain even from good 
words for the sake of silence, how much more ought 
we to abstain from evil words, on account of the 
punishment due to sin. Therefore, on account of 
the importance of silence, let leave to speak be 



Digitized by Google 



40 



QJegufa J$. I&enebtcft 



eloquiis, perfectis discipulis propter taciturnitatis 
gravitatem rara loquendi concedatur licentia,* quia 
scriptum est : In multiloquio non effugies pecca - 
tum : [Prov. x. 19] et alibi : Mors et vita in mani- 
bus linguae, [Prov. xviii. 21.] Nam loqui et docere 
magistrum condecet : tacere, et audire discipulo 
convenit. 

Et ideo, si quae requirenda sunt a Priore, cum 
omni humilitate et subjectione reverentiae requiran- 
tur. Scurrilitates vero vel verba otiosa et risum 
moventia, aeterna clausura in omnibus locis damna- 
mus, et ad tale eloquium discipulum aperire os non 
permittimus. 



CAPUT VII. 

De Humilitate. 

LAMAT nobis Scriptura divina, 2 5 jan. 

_ .. _ . . 26 Maii 

fratres, dicens : Omnts , qut se 25 Sept. 
exaltat , humiliabitur , et qui se humi- 
liat , exaltabitur, [Luc. xiv. 11.] Cum 
haec ergo dicit, ostendit omnem exaltationem genus 
esse superbiae : quod se cavere Propheta indicat, 
dicens: Domine , non est exaltatum cor meum, 
neque elati sunt oculi mei; neque ambulavi in 
magnis , neque in mirabilibus super me. Sed quid ? 

*Note B. — Rara loquendi concedatur licentia . 




Digitized by Google 




Qjjufe of $ene$tcf 



41 



seldom granted even to perfect disciples,* although 
their conversation be good and holy and tending to 
edification ; because it is written : “ In much 
speaking thou shalt not avoid sin ” ; and elsewhere : 
“ Death and life are in the power of the tongue.’* 
For it becometh the master to speak and to teach, 
but it beseemeth the disciple to be silent and to 
listen. And therefore, if anything has to be asked 
of the Superior, let it be done with all humility and 
subjection of reverence. But as for buffoonery or 
idle words, such as move to laughter, we utterly 
condemn them in every place, nor do we allow the 
disciple to open his mouth in such discourse. 



CHAPTER VII. 
Of Humility. 




HE Holy Scripture crieth out to 25 Jan. 

26 May 

us, brethren, saying : “ Every 25 Sept, 

one that exalteth himself shall be 
humbled, and he who humbleth him- 
self shall be exalted.” In saying this, it teacheth 
us that all exaltation is a kind of pride, against 
which the prophet sheweth himself to be on his 
guard when he saith : 41 Lord, my heart is not 
exalted nor mine eyes lifted up ; nor have I walked 
in great things, nor in wonders above me." For 



Digitized by Google 




42 



Qjjegufa J$. Qgenebti 



Si non humiliter sentiebam , sed exaltavi anima 
meam ; sicut ablactatus super matre sua, i 
retributio in anima mea . [Ps. cxxx. 1, 2.] Unc 
fratres, si summae humilitatis volumus culm 
attingere, et ad exaltationem illam coelestem, 
quam per praesentis vitae humilitatem ascenditi 
volumus velociter pervenire ; actibus nostris asce 
dentibus, scala erigenda est, quae in somno Jac 
apparuit, per quam et descendentes et ascendent 
Angeli monstrabantur. Non aliud sine dubio d 
scensus ille et ascensus a nobis intelligitur ; n 
exaltatione descendere, et humilitate ascendei 
Scala vero ipsa erecta, nostra est vita in saecul 
quae humiliato corde a Domino erigitur ad coelui 
Latera enim hujus scalae dicimus nostrum es 
corpus et animam, in quae latera diversos grad 
humilitatis, vel disciplinae, vocatio divina asce 
dendos inseruit. 

Primus itaque humilitatis gradus est, si 26 X 2 

. __ . . , 27M 

timorem Dei sibi ante oculos semper ponens, 26 s« 
oblivionem omnino fugiat, et semper sit mem 
omnium quae praecepit Deus, qualiter contemnent 
Deum gehenna de peccatis incendat et vitam aetc 
nam, quae timentibus Deum praeparata est, anir 
suo semper revolvat. Et custodiens se omni hc 
a peccatis et vitiis, id est cogitationum, lingu 
oculorum, manuum, pedum vel voluntatis propri 
sed et desideria carnis amputare festinet. 



Digitized by Google 





®«fe of £f. Q^eneitcf 



43 



why? “ If I did not think humbly, but exalted my 
soul : like a child that is weaned from his mother, 
so wilt Thou requite my soul/* Whence, brethren, 
if we wish to arrive at the highest point of humility, 
and speedily to reach that heavenly exaltation to 
which we can only ascend by the humility of this 
present life, we must by our ever-ascending actions 
erect such a ladder as that which Jacob beheld in 
his dream, by which the angels appeared to him 
descending and ascending. This descent and ascent 
8ignifleth nothing else than that we descend by self- 
exaltation and ascend by humility. And the ladder 
thus erected is our life in the world, which, if the 
heart be humbled, is lifted up by the Lord to 
heaven. The sides of the same ladder we under- 
stand to be our body and soul, in which our divine 
vocation hath placed various degrees of humility or 
discipline, which we must ascend. 

The first degree of humility, then, is that 26 Tan. 

27 May 

a man always keep the fear of God before 26Se P t. 
his eyes, avoiding all forgetfulness ; and that he be 
ever mindful of all that God hath commanded, be- 
thinking himself that those who despise God will be 
consumed in hell for their sins, and that life ever- 
lasting is prepared for them that fear Him. And 
keeping himself at all times from sin and vice, 
whether of the thoughts, the tongue, the hands, 
the feet, or his own will, let him thus hasten to cut 
off the desires of the flesh. 



Digitized by Google 





44 



(gesufa J£. Opened 



^Estimet se homo de coelis a Deo semper 27 
respici omni hora, et facta sua in omni loco 27 
ab aspectu Divinitatis videri, et ab Angelis c 
hora Deo renuntiari. Demonstrat nobis 
Propheta, cum in cogitationibus nostris ita D 
semper praesentem ostendit, dicens : Scru\ 

corda et renes Deus . [Ps. vii. 10.] Et it 
Dominus novit cogitationes hominum , quon 
vance sunt. [Ps. xciii. 11.] Et item dicit: h 
texisti cogitationes meas a longe ; [Ps. cxxxviii 
et : Quia cogitatio hominis confitebitur tibi. 
lxxv. 11.] Nam ut sollicitus sit circa cogitati 
perversas, dicat semper humilis frater in corde 1 
Tunc ero immaculatus coram eo, si observa 
me ab iniquitate mea. [Ps. xvii. 24.] 

Voluntatem vero propriam ita facere pro- 28 
hibemur, cum dicit nobis Scriptura: Et a 28 
voluntatibus tuis avertere. [Eccli. xviii. 30.] 
item rogamus Deum in oratione, ut fiat illius vo 
tas in nobis. 

Docemur ergo merito nostram non facere vo 
tatem, quum cavemus illud, quod dicit Scripti 
Sunt vice, quce videntur hominibus rectce , qua 
finis usque ad profundum inferni demergit. [F 
xvi. 25.] Et cum item pavemus illud, quoc 
negligentibus dictum est : Corrupti sunt, et ah 
nahiles facti sunt in voluptatibus suis. [Ps. lii 
In desideriis vero carnis nobis Deum credamus £ 
per esse praesentem, cum dicit Propheta Dom 



Digitized by Google 





QJufe of | If. ®ene&tcf 



45 



Let him consider that he is always beheld 27 Jan. 

28 May 

from heaven by God, and that his actions 2 7 Se P t. 
are everywhere seen by the eye of the Divine 
Majesty, and are every hour reported to Him by 
His angels. This the prophet telleth us, when he 
sheweth how God is ever present in our thoughts, 
6aying : “ God searcheth the heart and the reins/* 
And again : “ The Lord knoweth the thoughts of 
men.** And he also saith : “ Thou hast understood 
my thoughts afar off ** ; and “ The thought of man 
shall confess to Thee/* In order, therefore, that 
he may be on his guard against evil thoughts, let 
the humble brother say ever in his heart : “ Then 
shall I be unspotted before Him, if I shall have 
kept me from mine iniquity/* 

We are, indeed, forbidden to do our own 28 jan. 

29 May 

will by Scripture, which saith to us : “ Turn 28Se P t. 
away from thine own will/* And so too we beg of 
God in prayer that His will may be done in us. 
Rightly therefore are we taught not to do our own 
will, if we take heed to the warning of Scripture : 
“ There are ways which to men seem right, but the 
ends thereof lead to the depths of hell ** ; or, again, 
when we tremble at what is said of the careless : 
“ They are corrupt and have become abominable in 
their pleasures/* And in regard to the desires of 
the flesh, we must believe that God is always pre- 
sent to us, as the prophet saith to the Lord : “ O 
Lord, all my desire is before Thee/* 



Digitized by Google 





46 



(gegufa J5. $enei>tcfi 



Domine , ante te est omne desiderium meum. [Ps. 
xxxvii. 10.] 

Cavendum ergo ideo malum desiderium, agian. 

. . , , . . 3oMaii 

quia mors secus introitum delectationis 2 9 Se P t. 
posita est. Unde Scriptura praecipit, dicens: Post 
concupiscentias tuas non eas . [Eccli. xviii. 30.] 
Ergo, si oculi Domini speculantur bonos et malos, 
et Dominus de coelo semper respicit super filios 
hominum, ut videat si est intelligens, aut requirens 
Deum ; et ab Angelis nobis deputatis quotidie die 
noctuque Domino factorum nostrorum opera nostra 
nuntiantur : cavendum est ergo omni hora, fratres, 
sicut dicit in Psalmo Propheta : ne nos declinantes 
in malo, et inutiles factos, aliqua hora aspiciat 
Deus, et parcendo nobis in hoc tempore (quia pius 
est, et exspectat nos converti in melius), ne dicat 
nobis in futuro : Hcec fecisti , et tacui. [Ps. xlix. 21.] 

Secundus humilitatis gradus est, si pro- 30 jfan. 
priam quis non amans voluntatem, desideria 30 Sept. 
sua non delectetur implere ; sed vocem illam 
Domini factis imitetur dicentis : Non veni facere 
voluntatem meam , sed ejus qui misit me. [Joan, 
vi. 38.] Item dicit Scriptura : Voluntas habet 
poenam, et necessitas parit coronam.* 

Tertius humilitatis gradus est, ut quis pro 31 jan. 
Dei amore omni obedientia se subdat majori, \ fe u 
imitans Dominum, de quo dicit Apostolus : Factus 
obediens usque ad mortem. [Phil. ii. 8.] 

' — *Note C. — Voluntas habet pcmatn, &Y. 



Digitized by Google 




QJufe of gf . (genebtcf 



47 



Let as be on our guard then against evil 29 Jan. 

• 30 May 

desires, since death hath its seat close to the 29 Sept, 
entrance of delight ; wherefore the Scripture com- 
mandeth us, saying : 44 Go not after thy concupis- 
cences/* Since, therefore, the eyes of the Lord 
behold the good and the evil ; and the Lord is ever 
looking down from heaven upon the children of 
men, to see who hath understanding or is seeking 
God ; and since the works of our hands are re- 
ported to Him day and night by the angels ap- 
pointed to watch over us ; we must be always on 
the watch, brethren, lest, as the prophet saith in 
the psalm, God should see us at any time declining 
to evil and become unprofitable ; and lest, though He 
spare us now, because He is merciful and expec- 
teth our conversion, He should say to us hereafter : 
44 These things thou didst and I held My peace/* 
The second degree of humility is, that a 30 jan. 
man love not his own will, nor delight in 30 Sept, 
gratifying his own desires; but carry out in his 
deeds that saying of the Lord : 44 1 came not to do 
mine own will, but the will of Him Who sent me/* 
And again Scripture saith : Self-will hath punish- 
ment, but necessity wins a crown.* 

The third degree of humility is, that a man 31 jan. 
for the love of God submit himself to his * oa 
superior in all obedience ; imitating the Lord, of 
Whom the apostle saith : 44 He was made obedient 
even unto death/* # 



Digitized by Google 





48 



(gegufa JJ. Q$enetfcft 



Quartus humilitatis gradus est, si in ipsa i Feb. 

.. 2 Junii 

obedientia duns et contrariis rebus, vel * Oct. 
etiam quibuslibet irrogatis injuriis, tacita conscien- 
tia patientiam amplectatur, et sustinens non lasses- 
cat vel discedat, dicente Scriptura : Qui persevera - 
verit usque in finem> hic salvus erit . [Matth. 
xxiv. 13.] Item : Confortetur cor tuum , et sustine 
Dominum . [Ps. xxvi. 14.] Et ostendens fidelem 
pro Domino universa etiam contraria sustinere 
debere, dicit ex persona sufferentium : Propter te 
morte afficimur tota die ; cestimati sumus sicut 
oves occisionis . [Ps. xliii. 22.] Et securi de spe 
retributionis divinae, subsequuntur gaudentes, et 
dicentes: Sed in his omnibus superamus propter 
eum , qui dilexit nos . [Rom. viii. 37.] Et item 
alio loco Scriptura : Probasti nos t inquit, Deus , 

igne nos examinasti , sicut igne examinatur argen- 
tum : induxisti nos in laqueum ; posuisti tribula- 
tiones in dorso nostro . [Ps. lxv. 10, 11.] Et ut 
ostendat sub Priore debere nos esse, subsequitur 
dicens : Imposuisti homines super capita nostra. 
[Ps. lxv. 12.] Sed et praeceptum Domini in adversis 
et injuriis per patientiam adimplentes, qui percussi 
in maxilla praebent et alteram, auferenti tunicam 
dimittunt et pallium, angariati milliario vadunt duo, 
[Matth. v. 39, 41.] cum Paulo Apostolo falsos 
fratres sustinent, et maledicentes se benedicunt. 
[2 Cor. xi. 26.] 



Digitized by Google 




($ufe of J£t. Qpenefctcf 



49 



The fourth degree of humility is, that if in i Feb. 
this very obedience hard and contrary things, 2 fc"! 
nay even injuries, are done to him, he should em- 
brace them patiently with a quiet conscience, and 
not grow weary or give in, as the Scripture saith : 
“ He that shall persevere to the end shall be saved.” 
And again : “ Let thy heart be comforted, and wait 
for the Lord/* And shewing how the faithful man 
ought to bear all things, however contrary, for the 
Lord, it saith in the person of the afflicted : “ For 
Thee we suffer death all the day long; we are 
esteemed as sheep for the slaughter.” And secure 
in their hope of the divine reward, they go on with 
joy, saying : *• But in all these things we overcome, 
through Him Who hath loved us.” And so in 
another place Scripture saith : “ Thou hast proved 
us, O God ; Thou has tried us as silver is tried by 
fire ; Thou hast led us into the snare, and hast laid 
tribulation on our backs.” And in order to shew 
that we ought to be under a superior, it goes on to 
say : “ Thou hast placed men over our heads.” 
Moreover, fulfilling the precept of the Lord by 
patience in adversities and injuries, they who are^ 
struck on one cheek offer the other : to him who 
taketh away their coat they leave also their cloak ; 
and being forced to walk one mile, they go two. 
With Paul the Apostle, they bear with false breth- 
ren, and bless those that curse them. 



Digitized by Google 





50 



QJegufa J£. (genebictt 



Quintus humilitatis gradus est, si omnes a Feb. 
cogitationes malas cordi suo advenientes, vel 3 &ct! 1 
mala a se absconse commissa per humilem confes- 
sionem Abbati non celaverit suo. Hortatur nos de 
hac re Scriptura, dicens : Revela Domino viam 
tuam , et spera in eo. [Ps. xxxvi. 5.] Et item dicit : 
Confitemini Domino , quoniam bonus , quoniam in 
sceculum misericordia ejus. [Ps. cv. 1.] Et item 
Propheta : Delictum meum cognitum tibi feci , et 
injustitias meas non operui. Dixi , pronuntiabo 
adversum me injustitias meas Domino , et tu 
remisisti impietatem cordis mei. [Ps. xxxi. 5.] 

Sextus humilitatis gradus est, si omni 3 Feb. 

..... . 4 Junii 

vilitate vel extremitate contentus sit mona- 4 Oct. 
chus, et ad omnia quse sibi injunguntur, velut 
operarium malum se judicet et indignum, dicens 
sibi cum Propheta : Ad nihilum redactus sum, et 
nescivi : ut jumentum factus sum apud te, et ego 
semper tecum . [Ps. lxxii. 22, 23.] 

Septimus humilitatis gradus est, si omni- 4 Feb. 
bus se inferiorem et viliorem, non solum sua 5 Oct” 
lingua pronuntiet, sed etiam intimo cordis credat 
affectu, humilians se, et dicens cum Propheta : Ego 
autem sum vermis , et non homo , opprobrium homi- 
num, et abjectio plebis : [Ps. xxi. 7.] exaltatus 
sum , et humiliatus, et confusus. [Ps. Ixxxvii. 16.] 



Digitized by Google 





(gttfe of ®enefctcf 



51 



The fifth degree of humility is, not to hide 2 Feb. 
from one's Abbot any of the evil thoughts 3 0ct. e 
that beset one's heart, or the sins committed in 
secret, but humbly to confess them. Concerning J 
which the Scripture exhorteth us, saying : “ Make 
known thy way unto the Lord, and hope in Him/* 
And again : “ Confess to the Lord, for He is good, 
and His mercy endureth for ever." So also the 
prophet saith : “ I have made known to Thee mine 
offence, and mine iniquities I have not hidden. I 
will confess against myself my iniquities to the 
Lord : and Thou hast forgiven the wickedness of 
my heart." 

-n 

The sixth degree of humility is, for a monk 3 Feb. 
to be contented with the meanest and worst 4 Set* 
of everything, and in all that is enjoined him to J 
esteem himself a bad and worthless labourer, saying 
with the prophet : “ I have been brought to nothing, 
and I knew it not : I am become as a beast before 
Thee, yet I am always with Thee." 

The seventh degree of humility is, that he 4 Feb. 

5 June 

should not only call himself with his tongue 5 Oct. 
lower and viler than all, but also believe himself in 
his inmost heart to be so, humbling himself, and j 
saying with the prophet : “I am a worm and no j 
man, the shame of men and the outcast of the I 
people : I have been exalted, and cast down, and 
confounded." And again : “ It is good for me that 



Digitized by Google 





52 



(gegufo J§. Qgenefctcft 



Et item : Bonum mihi , quod humiliasti me, ut 
discam mandata tua . [Ps. cxviii. 71.] 

Octavus humilitatis gradus est, si nihil 5 Feb. 
agat monachus, nisi quod communis mona- efe" 
sterii regula, vel majorum cohortantur exempla. 

Nonus humilitatis gradus est, si linguam 6 Feb. 
ad loquendum prohibeat monachus, et taci- 70S" 
turnitatem habens, usque ad interrogationem non 
loquatur, monstrante Scriptura : quia in multi- 
loquio non effugietur peccatum ; [Prov. x. 19.] et 
quia vir linguosus non dirigetur super terram . 
[Ps. cxxxix. 12.] 

Decimus humilitatis gradus est, si non sit 7 Feb. 

, .... 8 Junii 

facilis ac promptus in nsu, quia scriptum BOct. 
est : Stultus in risu exaltat vocem suam . [EccYi. 
xxi. 23.] 

Undecimus humilitatis gradus est, si cum 8 Feb. 

9 Junii 

loquitur monachus, leniter et sine risu, 90«. 
humiliter et cum gravitate, vel pauca verba et 
rationabilia loquatur, et non sit clamosus in voce ; 
sicut , scriptum est : Sapiens verbis innotescit 

paucis. 

Duodecimus humilitatis gradus est, si non 9 Feb. 

* « . xo Junii 

solum corde monachus, sed etiam ipso cor- xoOct. 
pore humilitatem videntibus se semper indicet, id 
est, in Opere Dei, in oratorio, in monasterio, in 
horto, in via, in agro vel ubicumque, sedens, ambu- 
lans, vel stans, inclinato sit semper capite, defixis 



Digitized by Google 




QJufe of (genebt ct 



53 



Thou hast humbled me, that I may learn Thy com- 
mandments." 

The eighth degree of humility is, for a 5 Feb. 
monk to do nothing except what is author- 6 Oct. 
ised by the common rule of the monastery, or the 
example of his seniors. 

The ninth degree of humility is, that a 6 Feb. 
monk refrain his tongue from speaking, 7&t. e 
keeping silence until a question be asked him, as 
the Scripture sheweth : “In much talking thou 
shalt not avoid sin ” : and, « The talkative man 
shall not be directed upon the earth." 

The tenth degree of humility is, that he 7 Feb. 
be not easily moved and prompt to laughter ; 8 oct. e 
because it is written : “ The fool lifteth up his voice 
in laughter." 

The eleventh degree of humility is, that 8 Feb. 

9 June 

when a monk speaketh, he do so gently and 9 Oct. 
without laughter, humbly, gravely, with few and 
reasonable words, and that he be not noisy in his 
speech, as it is written : “ A wise man is known by 
the fewness of his words." 

The twelfth degree of humility is, that the 9 Feb. 

10 June 

monk, not only in his heart but also in his 10 Oct, 
very exterior, always shew his humility to all who 
see him : that is, in the work of God, in the oratory, 
in the monastery, in the garden, on the road, in 
the field, or wherever he may be, whether sitting, 
walking or standing, with head always bent down, 



Digitized by Google 





54 



(gesufa £. (fenebtcft 



in terram aspectibus, reum se omni hora de pec- 
catis suis existimans, jam se tremendo Dei judicio 
repraesentari existimet : dicens sibi in corde semper 
illud, quod publicanus ille evangelicus, fixis in 
terram oculis, dixit : Domine , non sum dignus 
ego peccator levare oculos meos ad coelum . [Luc. 
xviii. 13.] Et item cum Propheta : Incurvatus et 
humiliatus sum usquequaque . [Ps. cxviii. 107.] 
Ergo his omnibus humilitatis gradibus ascensis, 
monachus mox ad charitatem Dei perveniet illam, 
quae perfecta foras mittit timorem ; per quam uni- 
versa quae prius non sine formidine observabat, 
absque ullo labore velut naturaliter ex consuetudine 
incipiet custodire, non jam timore gehennae, sed 
amore Christi et consuetudine ipsa bona, et delecta- 
tione virtutum. Quod Dominus in operarium suum 
mundum a vitiis et peccatis Spiritu Sancto dignabi- 
tur demonstrare. 



CAPUT VIII. 

De Officiis Divinis in Noctibus. 



jjYEMIS tempore, id est, a Kalendis io Fcb. 
Novembris usque in Pascha, «Oct!* 
juxta considerationem rationis, octava 
hora noctis surgendum est,* ut modice 
amplius de media nocte pausetur, et jam digesti 




Note D . — Octava hora . 



Drgitizechby Google 




QJufe of <$ enettcf 



55 



and eyes fixed on the earth, that he ever think of 
the guilt of his sins, and imagine himself already 
present before the terrible judgment-seat of God : 
always saying in his heart what the publican in 
the Gospel said with his eyes fixed on the earth : 
44 Lord, I a sinner am not worthy to raise mine 
eyes to heaven/' And again, with the prophet : 44 1 
am bowed down and humbled on every side." 

Having, therefore, ascended all these degrees of 
humility, the monk will presently arrive at that 
love of God which, being perfect, casteth out fear : 
whereby he shall begin to keep, without labour, and 
as it were naturally and by custom, all those pre- 
cepts which he had hitherto observed through fear : 
no longer through dread of hell, but for the love of 
Christ, and of a good habit and a delight in virtue : 
which God will vouchsafe to manifest by the Holy 
Spirit in his labourer, now cleansed from vice and 
sin. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Of the Divine Office at Night. 

N winter time, that is, from the loFeb. 

. 11 J une 

first of November until Easter, nOct. 

the brethren shall rise at what may be 

reasonably calculated to be the eighth 

hour of the night ;* so that having rested till some 




Digitized by Google 





56 



(gegufa J$. Qpenetfcfi 



surgant Quod vero restat post Vigilias, a fratribus 
qui psalterii vel lectionum aliquid indigent, medita- 
tioni inserviatur. A Pascha autem usque ad supra- 
dictas Kalendas Novembris, sic temperetur hora 
Vigiliarum agenda, ut parvissimo intervallo, que 
fratres ad necessaria naturae exeant, custodito, mos 
Matutini, qui incipiente luce agendi sunt, sub- 
sequantur. 



CAPUT IX. 




Quot Psalmi dicendi sunt in Nocturnis Horis. 
[YEMIS tempore suprascripto, » Feb. 

. _ 12 Junii 

praemisso m primis versu : Deus « Oct. 
in adjutorium meum intende , Domine 
ad adjuvandum me festina , [Ps. lxix. 
2.] cum Gloria ; in secundo ter dicendum est : 
Domine labia mea aperies t et os meum annunti- 
abit laudem tuam ; [Ps. 1. 17.] cui subjungendus 
est tertius Psalmus, et Gloria . Post hunc, Psalmus 
nonagesimus quartus cum antiphona, aut certe de- 
cantandus. Inde sequatur Ambrosianum : deinde 
sex psalmi cum antiphonis. Quibus dictis, dicto 
versu, benedicat Abbas, et sedentibus omnibus in 
scamnis, legantur vicissim a fratribus in codice 



yGoogte 



(gttfe of gl. Qgenefctcf 



57 



time past midnight, they may rise having had their 
full sleep. And let the time that remains after the 
Night-Office be spent in study by those brethren 
who have still some part of the psalter and lessons 
to learn. But from Easter to the first of Novem- 
ber let the hour for the Night-Office be so arranged 
that, after a very short interval, during which the 
brethren may go out for the necessities of nature, 
Lauds, which are to be said at day-break, may 
follow without delay. 



CHAPTER IX. 

How many Psalms are to be said at the 
Night Hours. 



N winter time, after beginning with « Feb. 

__ _ 4 xa June 

the verse, “ O God, come to my 12 Oct. 
assistance ; O Lord, make haste to help 
me,” with the Gloria , let the words, 
“ O Lord, Thou wilt open my lips, and my mouth 
shall declare Thy praise, 0 be next repeated thrice ; 
then the third Psalm, with a Gloria , after which 



the ninety-fourth Psalm is to be said or sung, witji 
an antiphon. Next let a hymn follow, and then six 
Psalms with antiphons. These being said, and also 
a versicle, let the Abbot give the blessing: and, 
all being seated, let three lessons be read by the 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




58 



(gegufa §. Qpenefcteft 



super analogium tres lectiones, inter quas et tria 
responsoria canantur. Duo responsoria sine Gloria 
dicantur. Post tertiam vero lectionem, qui cantat 
dicat Gloria ; quam dum incipit cantor dicere, mox 
omnes de sedilibus surgant ob honorem et reveren- 
tiam Sanctae Trinitatis. Codices autem legantur 
in Vigiliis divinae auctoritatis, tam veteris Testa- 
menti, quam novi ; sed et expositiones earum 
quae a nominatissimis et orthodoxis, et Catholicis 
Patribus factae sunt. Post has vero tres lectiones 
cum responsoriis suis, sequantur reliqui sex psalmi 
cum Alleluia canendi. Post hos lectio Apostoli 
sequatur, ex corde recitanda, et versus, et suppli- 
catio Litaniae, id est, Kyrie eleison. Et sic finian- 
tur Vigiliae nocturnae. 



CAPUT X. 

Qualiter ^Estatis tempore agatur 
Nocturna Laus. 

PASCHA autem usque ad Kalen- I2 Feb. 
das Novembris (ut supra dictum \l <"k*. u 
est) omnis Psalmodiae quantitas tene- 
atur : excepto, quod lectiones in codice, 
propter brevitatem noctium, minime legantur, sed 
pro ipsis tribus lectionibus, una de veteri Testa- 
mento memoriter dicatur, quam breve responsorium 




i 



Google 




QJufe of £f. (geneMcf 



59 



brethren in turns, from the book on the lectern. 
Between the lessons let three responsories be sung 
— two of them without a Gloria , but after the third 
let the reader say the Gloria : and as soon as he 
begins it, let all rise from their seats out of honour 
and reverence to the Holy Trinity. Let the divinely 
inspired books, both of the Old and New Testaments, 
be read at the Night-Office, and also the commen- 
taries upon them written by the most renowned, 
orthodox and Catholic Fathers. After these three 
lessons with their responsories, let six more Psalms 
follow, to be sung with an Alleluia, Then let a 
lesson from the Apostle be said by heart, with a 
verse and the petition of the Litany, that is, Kyrie 
eleison. And so let the Night-Office come to an 
end. 



CHAPTER X. 



How the Night-Office is to be said in 
Summer time. 

ROM Easter to the first of «Feb. 

13 June 

November let the same number 13 Oct. 
of Psalms be recited as prescribed 
above ; only that no lessons are to be 
read from the book, on account of the shortness of 
the night: but instead of those three lessons let 
one from the Old Testament be said by heart, 




Digitized by Google 




60 



(gegufa §b. ®en« 



subsequatur, et reliqua omnia (ut dictum est 
pleantur; id est, ut nunquam minus a duod 
Psalmorum quantitate ad Vigilias nocturnas 
tur, exceptis tertio et nonagesimo quarto P» 



CAPUT XI. 

Qualitbr Dominicis diebus Vigilia agant 



M1NICO die temperius surgatur , 
ad Vigilias, in quibus Vigiliis ! 
teneatur mensura ; id est, modi 
(ut supra disposuimus) sex Psalm 
versu, residentibus cunctis disposite et per ord 
in subselliis, legantur in codice (ut supra dixi 
quatuor lectiones cum responsoriis suis ; ubi 
tum in responsorio quarto dicatur a cantante Gi 
quam dum incipit, mox omnes cum reverentia 
gant. Post quas lectiones sequantur ex ordin 
sex Psalmi cum antiphonis, sicut anteriore 
versus. Post quos iterum legantur alia qui 
lectiones cum responsoriis suis, ordine quo s 
Post quas dicantur tria cantica de Prophetis, 
instituerit Abbas ; quae cantica cum Alleluia 
lantur. Dicto etiam versu, et benedicente Ab 
legantur aliae quatuor lectiones de novo Testam 
ordine quo supra. Post quartum autem Resp< 
rium incipiat Abbas hymnum : Te Deum lauda 



y Google 




(TJufe of J$f. $enefctcf 



61 



followed by a short responsory, and the rest as 
before laid down ; so that never less than twelve 
Psalms, not counting the third and ninety-fourth, 
be said at the Night-Office. 



CHAPTER XI. 

How the Night-Office is to be said on 
Sundays. 

N Sunday let the brethren rise 13 Feb. 
earlier for the Night-Office, xjfctf 
which is to be arranged as follows. 
When six Psalms and a versicle have 
been sung (as already prescribed), all being seated 
in order in their stalls, let four lessons with their 
responsories be read from the book, as before : and 
to the last responsory only let the reader add a 
Gloria , all reverently rising as soon as he begins it. 
After the lessons let six more Psalms follow in 
order, with their antiphons and versicle as before ; 
and then let four more lessons, with their respon- 
sories, be read in the same way as the former. 
Next let three canticles from the Prophets be said, 
as the Abbot shall appoint, which canticles are to 
be sung with an Alleluia . After the versicle, and 
the blessing given by the Abbot, let four more les- 
sons from the New Testament be read as before ; 
and at the end of the fourth responsory, let the 




Digitized by Google 




62 



(gegufft (genebicfx 



Quo perdicto, legat Abbas lectionem de Evangelio, 
cum honore et timore stantibus omnibus. Qua 
perlecta, respondeant omnes : Amen . Et subse- 

quatur mox Abbas hymnum : Te decet laus : et 
data benedictione * incipiant Matutinos. Qui ordo 
Vigiliarum omni tempore tam aestatis quam hyemis 
aequaliter in die Dominico teneatur : nisi forte (quod 
absit) tardius surgatur, quia tunc aliquid de lectio- 
nibus breviandum est,t aut responsoriis. Quod tamen 
omnino caveatur, ne proveniat. Quod si contigerit, 
digne inde satisfaciat Deo in oratorio, per cujus 
evenerit neglectum. 



CAPUT XII. 

Qualiter Matutinorum Solemnitas agatur. 



N Matutinis Dominico die, in x 4 Feb. 

. . .. . . iS Junii 

primis dicatur sexagesimus sex- xsOct. 



tus Psalmus sine antiphona indirectum.^ 
Post quem dicatur quinquagesimus 
Psalmus cum Alleluia ; post quem dicatur centesi- 
mus decimus septimus, et sexagesimus secundus ; 
deinde Benedictiones et Laudes §; lectio de Apoca- 
lypsi una ex corde, et responsorium, et Ambrosi- 
anum, et versus, et canticum de Evangelio, et 
Litania, et completum est. 

* Note E . — Data benedictione. 

t Note F . — De lectionibus breviandum est. 

$ Note G. — Indirectum. § Ps. cxlviii., cxlix., cl. 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




QJttfe of . (genebtcf 



63 



Abbot begin the hymn, Te Deum laudamus. After 
the hymn, let the Abbot read the lesson from the 
Gospel, while all stand in awe and reverence. The 
Gospel being ended, let all answer Amen . Then 
let the Abbot go on with the hymn, Te decet laus ; 
and after the blessing hath been given,* let them 
begin Lauds. This order for the Night-Office is 
always to be observed on Sunday, alike in summer 
and in winter, unless perchance (which God forbid) 
they rise too late, in which case the lessons or re- 
sponsories must be somewhat shortened.! Let all 
care, however, be taken that this do not happen ; 
but if it should, let him, through whose neglect it 
hath come to pass, make satisfaction for it in the 
oratory. 



CHAPTER XII. 

How the Solemn Office of Lauds is to be said. 

Lauds on Sunday let the sixty- i 4 Feb. 

15 June 

sixth Psalm first be said straight 15 Oct. 
onj without an antiphon. After this 
let the fiftieth Psalm be said, with an 
Alleluia , and then the hundred and seventeenth 
and the sixty-second. Then the Benedicite and 
Psalms of praise, § a lesson from the Apocalypse, 
said by heart, a responsory, a hymn, a versicle, a 
canticle out of the Gospel, and the Litany, and so 
end. 




Digitized by Google 



64 



(gegufft J$. $enefckft 



CAPUT XIII. 

Privatis diebus qualiter Matutini agantur. 



IEBUS autem privatis Matuti- i 5 Feb. 

... 16 Junii 

norum solemnitas ita agatur, i6 0 ct. 







?1 






m 


J 


-V' 



id est, ut sexagesimus sextus Psalmus 
dicatur sine antiphona, subtrahendo 
modice, sicut in Dominica, ut omnes occurrant 
ad quinquagesimum, qui cum antiphona dicatur. 
Post quem alii duo Psalmi dicantur, secundum 
consuetudinem, id est, secunda feria, quintus et 
trigesimus quintus. Tertia feria, quadragesimus 
secundus et quinquagesimus sextus. Quarta feria, 
sexagesimus tertius et sexagesimus quartus. Quinta 
feria, octogesimus septimus et octogesimus nonus. 
Sexta feria, septuagesimus quintus et nonagesimus 
primus. Sabbato autem, centesimus quadragesimus 
secundus, et Canticum Deuteronomii, quod divida- 
tur in duas Glorias . Nam ceteris diebus, canticum 
unumquodque die suo ex Prophetis, sicut psallit 
Ecclesia Romana, dicatur. Post haec sequantur 
Laudes ; deinde lectio una Apostoli memoriter 
recitanda, responsorium, Ambrosianum, versus, 
canticum de Evangelio, Litania, et completum est. 

Plane agenda Matutina, vel Vespertina i6Feb. 
non transeant aliquando, nisi ultimo per SJoct. 11 
ordinem Oratio Dominica, omnibus audientibus, 



y Goog le 





QJufe of gt (genetici 



65 



CHAPTER XIII. 

How Lauds are to be said on Week-days. 




N week-days let Lauds be cele- i 5 Feb- 

, . . 16 June 

brated in manner following. Let 16 Oct. 



the sixty-sixth Psalm be said without 
an antiphon, as on Sundays, and some- 
what slowly, in order that all may be in time for 
the fiftieth, which is to be said with an antiphon. 
After this let two other Psalms be said according 
to custom ; that is, on Monday, the fifth and thirty- 
fifth : on Tuesday, the forty-second and fifty-sixth : 
on Wednesday, the sixty- third and sixty- fourth : on 
Thursday, the eighty-seventh and eighty-ninth : on 
Friday, the seventy-fifth and ninety-first : and on 
Saturday, the hundred and forty-second and the 
Canticle from Deuteronomy, which must be divided 
into two Gloria's. But on the other days let can- 
ticles from the prophets be said, each on its proper 
day, according to the practice of the Roman Church. 
Then let the psalms of praise follow, and after them 
a lesson from the Apostle, to be said by heart, a 
responsory, a hymn, a versicle, a canticle out of the 
Gospel, the Litany, and so conclude. 

The office of Lauds and Vespers, how- i6Feb. 

17 June 

ever, must never conclude without the 170a. 
Lord’s Prayer being said aloud by the Superior, so 



i Google 



66 



(gegufa J3* $enebteft 



dicatur a Priore, propter scandalorum spinas* quae 
oriri solent, ut conventi, per ipsius Orationis spon- 
sionem qua dicunt: Dimitte nobis sicut et nos 
dimittimus , purgent se ab hujusmodi vitio. Caeteris 
vero agendis ultima pars ejus Orationis dicatur, ut 
ab omnibus respondeatur : Sed libera nos a malo. 



CAPUT XIV. 

In Natautiis Sanctorum qualiter Vigille 

AGANTUR. 

Sanctorum vero festivitatibus, i^Feb. 
vel omnibus solem nitatibus, sicut *1 
diximus Dominico die agendum, ita 
agatur, excepto quod Psalmi, aut anti- 
phonae vel lectiones ad ipsum diem pertinentes 
dicantur. Modus autem supradictus teneatur. 




CAPUT XV. 

Alleluia quibus temporibus dicatur. 




SANCTO Pascha usque ad Pen- i8Feb. 

. . . . .. *9 Junii 

tecosten, sine intermissione dica- 19 Oct. 
tur Alleluia , tam in Psalmis, quam in 
responsoriis. A Pentecoste usque in 



caput Quadragesimae, omnibus noctibus, cum sex 



* Note H . — Scandalorum sfinas. 







(gttfe of $enebtcf 



67 



that all may hear it, on account of the thorns of 
scandal * which are wont to arise ; so that the 
brethren, by the covenant which they make in that 
prayer when they say “ Forgive us as we forgive, ” 
may cleanse themselves of such faults. But at the 
other Offices let the last part only of the prayer be 
said aloud, so that all may answer : “ But deliver 
us from evil." 



CHAPTER XIV. 

How the Night-Office is to be said 
on Saint’s-days. 

the Festivals of Saints, and all i 7 Feb. 
other solemnites, let the Office isoct. 
be ordered as we have prescribed for 
Sundays : except that the Psalms, 
antiphons, and lessons suitable to the day are to be 
said. Their number, however, shall remain as we 
have appointed above. 

CHAPTER XV. 

At what times of the year Alleluia 
is to be said. 

ROM the holy Feast of Easter i8Feb. 

, € _ . . 19 June 

until Pentecost, without inter- 190«. 
ruption, let Alleluia be said both with 
the Psalms and the responsories. 
From Pentecost until the beginning of Lent, it is 





Digitized by Google 






68 



(gegufft J$. ®eneb»eft 



posterioribus Psalmis tantum ad Nocturnos dicatur. 
Omni vero Dominica extra Quadragesimam, Can- 
tica,* Matutini, Prima, Tertia, Sexta, Nonaque cum 
Alleluia dicantur : Vespera jam cum antiphona. 
Responsoria vero nunquam dicantur cum Alleluia , 
nisi a Pascha usque Pentecosten. 



CAPUT XVI. 



Qualiter Divina Opera per diem agantur. 




ait Propheta : Septies in die 19 Feb. 

...... _ ... 20 Junii 

laudem dtxt txbx . [Ps. cxvin. 2 oOct. 

164.] Qui septenarius sacratus nume- 
rus a nobis sic implebitur, si Matutini, 
Primae, Tertiae, Sextae, Nonae, Vesperi, Completorii- 
que tempore, nostrae servitutis officia persolvamus. 
Quia de his Horis dixit Propheta : Septies in die 
laudem dixi tibi . Nam de nocturnis Vigftiis idem 
ipse Propheta ait : Media nocte surgebam ad con- 
fitendum tibi . [Ibid. 62.] Ergo his temporibus 

referamus laudes Creatori nostro super judicia 
justitiae suae, id est, Matutinis, Prima, Tertia, 
Sexta, Nona, Vespera, Completorio, et nocte sur- 
gamus ad confitendum ei. 

* In the third nuet am of the Night-Office. 



Digitized by v^ooQle 



QJttfe of (genebtcf 



69 



to be said at the Night-Office with the six latter 
Psalms only. But on every Sunday out of Lent let 
the Canticles,* Lauds, Prime, Tierce, Sext and 
None be said with Alleluia : Vespers, however, with 
an antiphon. The responses are never to be said 
with Alleluia , except from Easter to Pentecost. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

How the Work of God is to be done in 

THE DAY-TIME. 

S the prophet saith : 44 Seven times 19 Feb. 

. .... , . 20 June 

m the day have I given praise to Oct. 
Thee.” And we shall observe this 
sacred number of seven if, at the times 
of Lauds, Prime, Tierce, Sext, None, Vespers and 
Compline, we fulfil the duties of our service. For 
it was of these hours of the day that he said : 
44 Seven times in the day have I given praise to 
Thee 99 ; just as the same prophet saith of the night 
watches : “ At midnight I arose to give Thee praise.” 
At these times, therefore, let us sing the praises of 
our Creator for the judgments of His justice : that 
is, at Lauds, Prime, Tierce, Sext, None, Vespers and 
Compline ; and at night let us arise to praise Him. 




Digitized by Google 



70 



QJegufa J|. (genefctcft 



CAPUT XVII. 

Quot Psalhi pbr easdem Horas canendi 
sunt. 

AM de Nocturnis, vel Matutinis so Feb. 
digessimus ordinem Psalmodiae, >> Oct. 
nunc de sequentibus Horis videamus. 
Prima Hora dicantur Psalmi tres sigil- 
latim, et non sub una Gloria . Hymnus ejusdem 

Horae post versum, Deus in adjutorium , antequam 
Psalmi incipiantur. Post expletionem vero trium 
Psalmorum recitetur lectio una, versus, et Kyrie 
eleison , et missae sint.* Tertia vero, Sexta, et Nona 
eodem ordine celebretur Oratio : versus, hymni 
earundem Horarum, terni Psalmi, lectio, et versus, 
Kyrie eleison, et missae sint. Si major Congre- 
gatio fuerit, cum antiphonis, si vero minor, in dire- 
ctum psallantur, t 

Vespertina antem synaxis quatuor Psalmis cum 
antiphonis terminetur, post quos Psalmos lectio 
recitanda est, inde responsorium, Ambrosianum, 
versus, canticum de Bvangelio, Litaniae et Oratio 
Dominica, et fiant missae. Completorium autem 
trium Psalmorum dictione terminetur, qui Psalmi 
directanee et sine antiphona dicendi sunt. Post 
quos hymnus ejusdem Horae, lectio una, versus, et 
Kyrie eleison, et benedictiones, et missae flant. 

* Note I . — Missa sint . 
t Note K . — Si vero minor, indirectum . 




Digitized by Google 





QJttfe of $enebtef 



71 



CHAPTER XVII. 

How many Psalms are to be sung at 
these Hours. 

E have now disposed the order of 20 Feb. 

2i June 

the psalmody for the Night- «Oct. 
Office and for Lauds : let us proceed to 
arrange for the remaining Hours. At 
Prime, let three Psalms be said, separately and 
not under one Gloria. The hymn at this Hour is y 
to follow the verse, Dens in adjutorium , before the 
Psalms be begun. Then, at the end of the three 
Psalms, let one lesson be said, with a versicle, the 
Kyrie eleison , and the Collect.* Tierce, Sext, and 
None are to be recited in the same way, that is, the 
Verse, the hymn proper to each hour, three Psalms, 
the lesson and versicle, Kyrie eleison , with the Col- 
lect. If the community be large, let the Psalms be 
sung with antiphons ; but if small, let them be sung 
straight forward.+ Let the Vesper Office consist of 
four Psalms with antiphons : after the Psalms a 
lesson is to be recited ; then a responsory, a hymn 
and versicle, the canticle from the Gospel, the 
Litany and Lord's Prayer, and finally the Collect. 
Let Compline consist of the recitation of three 
Psalms, to be said straight on without antiphons ; 
then the hymn for that Hour, one lesson, the 
versicle, Kyrie eleison , the blessing and the Collect 




Digitized by Google 



72 



(gegufa §b. ®ene&tcft 



CAPUT XVIII. 

Quo ordine ipsi Psalmi dicendi sunt. 

'N primis dicatur Versus : Deus 21 Feb. 

... . 22 Junii 

tn adjutorium meum intende , aaOct. 
Domine ad adjuvandum me festina , et 
Gloria . Inde hymnus uniuscujusque 
Horae. Deinde prima hora Dominica, dicenda sunt 
quatuor capitula Psalmi centesimi octavi decimi. 
Reliquis vero Horis, id est, Tertia, Sexta, vel Nona, 
terna capitula suprascripti Psalmi centesimi octavi 
decimi dicantur. Ad Primam autem secundae feriae 
dicantur tres Psalmi, id est, primus, secundus, et 
sextus. Rt ita per singulos dies ad Primam, usque 
Dominicam, dicantur per ordinem terni Psalmi, 
usque nonumdecimum Psalmum; ita sane, ut 
nonus Psalmus et septimus decimus partiantur in 
binas Glorias . Et sic fiat, ut ad Vigilias Dominica 
semper a vigesimo incipiatur. 

Ad Tertiam vero, Sextam, Nonamque -aa Feb. \ 
secundae feriae novem capitula, quae residua af 
sunt de centesimo octavo decimo Psalmo, ipsa 
terna capitula per easdem Horas dicantur. Ex- 
penso ergo Psalmo centesimo octavo decimo duo- 
bus diebus, id est, Dominico et secunda feria, tertia | 
feria jam ad Tertiam, Sextam, vel Nonam psallan- 




Digitized by v^ooQle 



QJufe of JJf. ®enei>tcf 



73 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

In what order the Psalms are to be said. 
■““IRST of all let this verse be said : Feb. 

_ . 22 June 

“ O God, come to my assistance ; 22 Oct. 
O Lord, make haste to help me," and 
the Gloria , followed by the Hymn proper 
to each Hour. At Prime on Sunday four parts of 
the hundred and eighteenth Psalm are to be said. 
At the other Hours, that is, Tierce, Sext, and 
None, let three parts of the same Psalm be said. 
At Prime on Monday let three Psalms be said, 
namely the first, second and sixth ; and so in the 
same way every day until Sunday let three Psalms 
be said at Prime in order, up to the nineteenth ; the 
ninth and the seventeenth, however, being divided 
into two Gloria's. It will thus come about that at 
the Night-Office on Sunday we shall always begin 
with the twentieth Psalm. 

At Tierce, Sext and None on Monday are 22 Feb. 

23 June 

to be said the nine remaining parts of the 23 Oct. 
hundred and eighteenth Psalm, three parts at each 
Hour. This Psalm having thus been said through 
in two days, that is Sunday and Monday, let the 
nine Psalms from the hundred and nineteenth to 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




74 . 



(gegufa J£. Q&enebteft 



tur terni Psalmi, a centesimo nono decimo usque 
centesimum vigesimum septimum, id est, Psalmi 
novem. Quique Psalmi semper usque Dominicam 
per easdem Horas itidem repetantur: hymnorum 
nihilominus, lectionum vel versuum dispositione 
uniformi cunctis diebus servata, et ita scilicet, 
semper Dominica a centesimo octavo decimo in- 
cipiatur. 

Vespera autem quotidie quatuor Psal- a3 Feb. 
morum modulatione canatur. Qui Psalmi ajfe 11 
incipiantur a centesimo nono usque centesimum 
quadragesimum septimum : exceptis iis, qui in 
4 diversis Horis ex eis sequestrantur, id est, a cen- 
tesimo septimo decimo, usque centesimum vigesi- 
mum septimum, et centesimo trigesimo tertio, et 
centesimo quadragesimo secundo. Reliqui omnes 
in Vespera dicendi sunt. Et quia minus veniunt 
tres Psalmi, ideo dividendi sunt, qui ex numero 
supradicto fortiores inveniuntur : id est, centesimus 
trigesimus octavus, et centesimus quadragesimus 
tertius, et centesimus quadragesimus quartus. 
Centesimus vero sextus decimus, quia parvus est, 
cum centesimo quinto decimo conjungatur. Di- 
gesto ergo ordine Psalmorum Vespertinorum, reli- 
qua, id est, lectiones, responsoria, hymni, versus, 
vel cantica, sicut supra taxavimus, impleantur. Ad 
Completorium vero quotidie iidem Psalmi repe- 
tantur ; id est quartus, nonagesimus, et centesimus 
trigesimus tertius. 



Digitized bf 



iGoogle 





®ufe of Jfr. Q^enefctcf 



75 



the hundred and twenty-second be said on Tuesday 
at Tierce, Sext and None — three at each Hour. 
And these Psalms are to repeated at the same 
Hours every day until Sunday; the arrangement, 
moreover, of hymns, lessons and versicles remaining 
the same throughout, so as always to begin on 
Sunday from the hundred and eighteenth Psalm. 

Vespers are to be sung every day with a3 Feb. 
four Psalms. And let these begin from the fit 
hundred and ninth, and go on to the hundred and 
forty-seventh, omitting those of their number which 
are set apart for other Hours — that is, from the 
hundred and seventeenth to the hundred and 
twenty-seventh, the hundred and thirty third, and 
the hundred and forty-second. All the rest are to 
be said at Vespers. And as there are three Psalms 
wanting, let those of the aforesaid number which are 
somewhat long be divided, namely the hundred and 
thirty-eighth, the hundred and forty-third, and the 
hundred and forty-fourth. But let the hundred 
and sixteenth, as it is short, be joined to the 
hundred and fifteenth. 

The order of the Psalms at Vespers being thus 
disposed, let the rest, that is the lessons, responses, 
hymns, verses, and canticles, be said as already laid 
down. At Compline the same Psalms are to be 
repeated every day : namely the fourth, ninetieth, 
and hundred and thirty-third. 



Digitized by Google 





76 



(gegufft JJ. $ene&tcft 



Disposito ordine Psalmodiae diurnae, reli- 24 Feb. 
qui omnes Psalmi, qui supersunt, aequaliter bissexti- 

. ^ r lis; alias 

dividantur in septem noctium Vigilias, par- jungitur 

. - . . .. . praece- 

tiendo scilicet qui inter eos prolixiores sunt <fcnti. 

25 Junii 

Psalmi, et duodecim per unamquamque *5 Oct. 
constituantur noctem. Hoc praecipue commo- 
nentes, ut si cui forte haec distributio Psalmorum 
displicuerit, ordinet, si melius aliter judicaverit, 
dum omnimodis id attendatur, ut omni hebdomada 
Psalterium ex integro numero centum quinquaginta 
Psalmorum psallatur, et Dominico die semper a 
capite repetatur ad Vigilias : quia nimis iners devo- 
tionis suae servitium ostendunt Monachi, qui minus 
Psalterio, cum Canticis consuetudinariis, per septi- 
manae circulum psallunt ; dumquando legamus, 
sanctos Patres nostros uno die hoc strenue imple- 
visse, quod nos tepidi utinam septimana integra 
persolvamus. 




CAPUT XIX. 

De Disciplina Psallendi. 

IBIQUE credimus divinam esse 24 Feb. 

. . 26 Junii 

praesentiam, et oculos Domini 260a. 



in omni loco speculari bonos et malos : 
maxime tamen hoc sine aliqua dubita- 
tione credamus, cum ad opus divinum assistimus. 
Ideo semper memores simus quod ait Propheta: 



Digitized by Google 




(gufe of Jj$f. (genefctcf 



77 



The order of psalmody for the Day- Hours 24 Feb. 
being now arranged let all the remaining 
Psalms be equally distributed among the not it is? 

added to 

seven Night-Offices, dividing the longer the P re- 

_ . ... « ceding 

Psalms among them, and assigning twelve to day. 

25 June 

each night. Above all, we recommend that 2 5 Oct. 
if this arrangement of the Psalms be displeasing to 
any one, he should, if he think fit, order it otherwise ; 
taking care in any case that the whole Psalter of 
a hundred and fifty Psalms be recited every week, 
and always begun afresh at the Night-Office on 
Sunday. For those monks would shew themselves 
very slothful in the divine service who said in the 
course of a week less than the entire Psalter, with 
the usual canticles ; since we read that our holy 
fathers resolutely performed in a single day what 
I pray we tepid monks may achieve in a whole 
week. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Of the Discipline of saying the Divine Office. 

E believe that the Divine presence 24 Feb. 
is everywhere, and that the eyes 26 Set* 
of the Lord behold the good and the evil 
in every place. Especially should we 
believe this, without any doubt, when we are 
assisting at the Work of God. Let us, then, ever 




Digitized by Google 




78 



(gegufft Qjjenefctcft 



Servite Domino in timore . [Ps. ii. 11.] Et iterum : 
Psallite sapienter . [Ps. xlvi. 8.] Et : In conspectu 
Angelorum psallam tibi . [Ps. cxxxvii. 2.] Ergo 
consideremus, qualiter oporteat nos in conspectu 
divinitatis et Angelorum ejus esse, et sic stemus ad 
psallendum, ut mens nostra concordet voci nostrae. 



CAPUT XX. 

De Reverentia Orationis. 




universorum cum omni humilitate et puritatis 
devotione supplicandum est ? Et non in multilo- 
quio, sed in puritate cordis, et compunctione lacry- 
marum nos exaudiri sciamus. Et ideo brevis debet 
esse et pura oratio ; nisi forte ex affectu inspirationis 
divinae gratiae protendatur. In conventu tamen 
omnino brevietur oratio, et facto signo a Priore, 
omnes pariter surgant. 



Digitized by v^ooQle 



79 



®ufe of (geneWcf 

remember what the prophet saith : “ Serve the 
Lord in fear” ; and again, “ Sing ye wisely” ; and, 
“ In the sight of the angels I will sing praises unto 
Thee.” Therefore let us consider how we ought to 
behave ourselves in the presence of God and of His 
angels, and so assist at the Divine Office, that our 
mind and our voice may accord together. 



CHAPTER XX. 

Of Reverence at Prayer. 

F, when we wish to make any 25 Feb. 

. 27 June 

request to men in power, we 270a. 
presume not to do so except with 
humility and reverence ; how much 
more ought we with all lowliness and purity of 
devotion to offer our supplications to the Lord God 
of all things ? And let us remember that not for 
our much speaking, but for our purity of heart and 
tears of compunction shall we be heard. Our ' 
prayer, therefore, ought to be short and pure, 
except it be perchance prolonged by the inspiration 
of Divine Grace. But let prayer made in common 
always be short : and at the signal given by the 
Superior, let ajl rise together. 




Digitized by v^ooQle 



80 



(TJegufa (gfcnedtctf 



CAPUT XXI. 

Db Dbcanis Monasterii. 

I major fuerit Congregatio, eligan- 26 Feb. 

«... . .28 Junii 

tur de ipsis fratres bom testi- asoct. 
monii et sanctae conversationis, et 
constituantur Decani : qui sollicitu- 
dinem gerant super Decanias suas in omnibus, 
secundum mandata Dei et praecepta Abbatis sui. 
Qui Decani tales eligantur, in quibus securus Abbas 
partiatur onera sua, et non eligantur per ordinem, 
sed secundum vitae meritum, et sapientiae doctrinam. 
Quique Decani si ex eis aliqua forte quis inflatus 
superbia repertus fuerit reprehensibilis ; correptus 
semel, et iterum, atque tertio, si emendare noluerit, 
dejiciatur, et alter in loco ejus, qui dignus est, sub- 
rogetur. Et de Praeposito eadem constituimus. 

CAPUT XXII. 

Quomodo dormiant monachi. 

INGULI per singula lecta dor- 27 Feb. 
miant. Lectisternia pro modo 29 fiS, 11 
conversationis, secundum dispensa- 
tionem Abbatis sui, accipiant. Si 
potest fleri, omnes in uno loco dormiant:* sin 
* Note L . — In uno loco . 





Digitized by LjOOQle 





QJttfe of J£t Qfjenefctcf 



81 



CHAPTER XXI. 

Of the Deans of the Monastery. 




HOULD the community be large, 26 Feb. 
let there be chosen from it cer- 28 Oct. 
tain brethren of good repute and 
holy life, and appointed Deans. Let 



them carefully direct their deaneries in all things 



according to the commandments of God and the 



will of their Abbot. And let such men be chosen 



Deans as the Abbot may safely trust to share his 
burdens : let them not be chosen according to order, 
but for the merit of their lives and for their wisdom 



and learning. And should any one of them, being 
puffed up with pride, be found worthy of blame, 
and after being thrice corrected, refuse to amend, 
let him be deposed, and one who is worthy put in 
his place. And we order the same to be done with 
regard to the Prior. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

How the Monks arb to sleep. 




ET them sleep each one in a 27 Feb. 

29 J une 

separate bed, receiving bedding 290«. 
suitable to their manner of life, as the 
Abbot shall appoint. If possible, let 



all sleep in one place : * but if the number do not 



Digitized by LjOOQle 




82 



(gesufa J£. $enebtcft 



autem multitudo non sinit, deni, aut viceni cum 
senioribus suis, qui super eos soliciti sint, pausent. 
Candela jugiter in eadem cella ardeat usque mane. 
Vestiti dormiant, et cincti cingulis aut funibus, et 
cultellos ad latus suum non habeant dum dormiunt, 
ne forte per somnium vulnerentur dormientes, et 
ut parati sint monachi semper; et facto signo 
absque mora surgentes, festinent invicem se prae- 
venire ad opus Dei, cum omni tamen gravitate et 
modestia. Adolescentiores fratres juxta se non 
habeant lecta, sed permixti cum senioribus. Sur- 
gentes vero ad Opus Dei, invicem se moderate 
cohortentur, propter somnolentorum excusationes. 



CAPUT XXIII. 

Db Excommunicatione Culparum. 

I quis frater contumax, aut inobe- 28 Feb. 
diens, aut superbus, aut mur- 30 Set* 
murans, vel in aliquo contrarius ex- 
sistens sanctas Regulae, et praeceptis 
seniorum suorum contemptor repertus fuerit; hic 
secundum Domini nostri praeceptum admoneatur 
semel et secundo secrete a senioribus suis. Si non 
emendaverit, objurgetur publice coram omnibus. 




Digitize a^rGoOglc 




QJufe of gt . (geneWcf 



83 



permit of this, let them repose by tens or twenties 
with the seniors who have charge of them* Let a 
candle burn constantly in the cell until morning. 
Let them sleep clothed, and girded with belts or 
cords — but not with knives at their sides, lest per- 
chance they wound themselves in their sleep — and 
thus be always ready, so that when the signal is 
given they may rise without delay, and hasten each 
to forestall the other in going to the Work of God, 
yet with all gravity and modesty. Let not the 
younger brethren have their beds by themselves, 
but among those of the seniors. And when they | 
rise for the Work of God, let them gently en- 
courage one another, because of the excuses of the 
drowsy. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Of Excommunication for Offences. 

F any brother shall be found con- 28 Feb. 

.. , -. 30 June 

tumacious, or disobedient, or 3°0ct. 
proud, or a murmurer, or in any way 
transgressing the Holy Rule, and con- 
temning the orders of his seniors ; let him, according 
to our Lord’s commandment, be once or twice 
privately admonished by his elders. If he do not 
amend, let him be rebuked in public before all. 




Digitized by Google 




84 



(gegufft t&enebtcfi 



Si vero neque sic correxerit, si inteliigit qualis 
poena sit, excommunicationi subjaceat. Sin autem 
improbus est, vindictae corporali subdatur. 



CAPUT XXIV. 

Qualis debeat esse modus Excommunicationis. 

ECUNDUM modum culpae, ex- xMar. 
. . . «,..«• 1 
communicationis vel disciplinae 3*Oct. 

mensura debet extendi: qui culparum 

modus in Abbatis pendeat judicio. Si 

quis tamen frater in levioribus culpis invenitur, 

tantum a mensae participatione privetur. Privati 

autem a mensae consortio, ista erit ratio: ut in 

Oratorio Psalmum, aut antiphonam non imponat, 

neque lectionem recitet, usque ad satisfactionem. 

Refectionem autem cibi post fratrum refectionem 

solus accipiat ; ut si verbi gratia fratres reficiunt 

sexta hora, ille frater nona : si fratres nona, ille 

vespera; usque dum satisfactione congrua veniam 

consequatur. 




Digitized by Google 





(gufe of JM. ®etteWcf 



85 



But if even then he do not correct himself, let him 
be subjected to excommunication, provided that he 
understand the nature of the punishment. Should 
he, however, prove incorrigible, let him undergo 
corporal chastisement. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

What the measure of Excommunication 
should BE. 

HE measure of excommunication x Mar, 

x July 

or chastisement should be meted 31 Oct. 
out according to the gravity of the 
offence, the estimation of which shall 
be left to the judgment of the Abbot. If any 
brother be found guilty of lighter faults, let him be 
excluded from the common table. And this shall 
be the rule for one so deprived : he shall intone 
neither Psalm nor antiphon in the Oratory, nor 
shall he read a lesson, until he have made satisfac- 
tion. Let him take his meals alone, after those of 
the brethren ; so that if, for example, the brethren 
eat at the sixth hour, let him eat at the ninth : if 
they eat at the ninth, let him eat in the evening, 
until by proper satisfaction he obtain pardon. 




Digitized by Google 



(gegufft £. $$enebtcft 



CAPUT xxv. 

Db gravioribus Culpis. 




IS autem frater, qui gravioris 2 Mar. 
culpae noxa tenetur, suspendatur I ilov. 
a mensa simul et ab Oratorio. Nullus 
ei fratrum in ullo jungatur consortio, 
neque in colloquio. Solus sit ad opus sibi in- 
junctum, persistens in poenitentiae luctu, sciens illam 
terribilem Apostoli sententiam dicentis : Traditum 
hujusmodi hominem Satance in interitum camis , 
ut spiritus salvus sit in die Domini . [1 Cor. v. 5.] 
Cibi autem refectionem solus percipiat, mensura 
vel hora quam viderit ei Abbas competere : nec a 
quoquam benedicatur transeunte, nec cibus, qui ei 
datur. 



CAPUT XXVI. 

Db iis, qui sine jussione Abbatis junguntur 
Excommunicatis. 

I quis Frater praesumpserit sine 3 Mar. 
jussione Abbatis fratri excom- afilJv. 
municato quolibet modo se jungere, 
aut loqui cum eo, vel mandatum ei 
dirigere, similem sortiatur excommunicationis vin- 
dictam. 




Digitized by Google 




(gufe of Jit. $ene£>tcf 



87 



CHAPTER XXV. 
Of graver Faults. 



ET that brother who is found 2 Mar. 
guilty of a more grievous offence 
be excluded both from the table and 
from the Oratory, and let none of the 
brethren consort with him or speak to him. Let 
him be alone at the work enjoined him, and con- 
tinue in penance and sorrow, remembering that 
dreadful sentence of the Apostle, “ That such a one 
is delivered over to Satan for the destruction of the 



flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the 
Lord/’ Let him take his portion of food alone, in 
the measure and at the time that the Abbot shall 



think best for him. Let none of those who pass by 
bless him, nor the food that is given him. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

Of those who, without leave of the Abbot, 

CONSORT WITH THE EXCOMMUNICATE. 

F any brother presume without 3 Mar. 
the Abbot’s leave to hold any 
intercourse whatever with an excom- 
municated brother, pr to speak with 
him, or to send him a message, let him incur the 
same punishment of excommunication. 




Digitized by v^ooQle 





88 



(gegufa J$. (genefctcfi 



CAPUT XXVII. 

Qualiter debeat esse solicitus Abbas circa 
Excommunicatos. 



MNI solicitudine curam gerat 4 Mar. 
Abbas circa delinquentes fratres : 3 &ov. 
quia non est opus sanis medicus , sed 
male habentibus . [Matth. ix. 12.] Et 
ideo uti debet omni modo ut sapiens medicus: 
immittere sympaectas,* id est, seniores sapientes 
fratres, qui quasi secrete consolentur fratrem fluctu- 
antem, et provocent ad humilitatis satisfactionem, 
et consolentur eum, ne abundantiori tristitia ab- 



sorbeatur ; sed sicut ait Apostolus : Confirmetur in 
eo charitas , et oretur pro eo ab omnibus . [2 Cor. 

ii. 8.] 

Magnopere enim debet solicitudinem gerere 
Abbas, et omni sagacitate et industria curare, ne 
aliquam de ovibus sibi creditis perdat. Noverit 
enim se infirmarum curam suscepisse animarum, 
non super sanas tyrannidem : et metuat Prophetae 
comminationem, per quem dicit Deus : Quod cras- 
sum videbatis , assumebatis : et quod debile erat , 
projiciebatis . [Ezech. xxxiv. 3.] Et Pastoris boni 
pium imitetur exemplum, qui relictis nonaginta 
novem ovibus in montibus, abiit unam ovem, quae 
erraverat, quaerere ; cujus infirmitati in tantum 



* Note M. — Sympccctas . 



Digitized by v^ooQle 





®ufe of J5f. ®ene&tcf 



89 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

HOW CAREFUL THE ABBOT SHOULD BB OF THE 

Excommunicate. 

ET the Abbot shew all care and 4 Mar. 

. 4 July 

solicitude towards the offending 3 Nov. 
brethren, for “ they that are whole 
need not a physician, but they that are 
sick.” To which end he ought, as a wise physician, 
to use every means in his power, sending some 
brethren of mature years and wisdom,* who may, 
as it were secretly, console the wavering brother, 
and induce him to make humble satisfaction. Let 
them comfort him, that he be not overwhelmed by 
excess of sorrow ; but as the Apostle saith, “ Let 
charity be strengthened towards him/' and let all 
pray for him. For the Abbot is bound to use the 
greatest care, and to strive with all possible pru- 
dence and zeal, not to lose any one of the sheep 
committed to him. He must know that he hath 
undertaken the charge of weakly souls, and not a 
tyranny over the strong ; and let him fear the 
threat of the prophet, through whom God saith : 
“ What ye saw to be fat that ye took to yourselves, 
and what was diseased ye cast away." Let him 
imitate the loving example of the Good Shepherd, 
who, leaving the ninety and nine sheep on the 
mountains, went to seek one which had gone astray, 
on whose weakness He had such compassion that 




Digitized by v^ooQle 



90 



(gegufft £. (genefctcft 



compassus est, ut eam sacris humeris suis dignare- 
tur imponere, et sic reportare ad gregem. 



CAPUT XXVIII. 

Db HIS, QUI SAEPIUS CORRECTI NON 
EMENDAVERINT. 

I quis frater frequenter correptus 5 Mar. 
pro qualibet culpa, si etiam ex- 4 £ 0 ". 
communicatus, non emendaverit, acrior 
ei accedat correptio, id est, ut verberum 
vindicta in eum procedat. Quod si nec ita se cor- 
rexerit, aut forte (quod absit) in superbiam elatus 
etiam defendere voluerit opera sua, tunc Abbas 
faciat quod sapiens medicus : si exhibuit fomenta, 
si unguenta adhortationum, si medicamina Scrip- 
turarum divinarum, si ad ultimum ustionem excom- 
municationis, vel plagarum virgas, et jam si viderit 
nihil suam praevalere industriam; adhibeat etiam 
(quod majus est) suam et omnium fratrum pro eo 
orationem, ut Dominus, qui omnia potest, operetur 
salutem circa infirmum fratrem. Quod si nec isto 
modo sanatus fuerit, tunc jam utatur Abbas ferro 
abscissionis, ut ait Apostolus : Auferte malum ex 
vobis . [1 Cor. v. 13.] Et iterum : Infidelis si 

discedit 9 discedat : [Ibid. vii. 15.] ne una ovis mor- 
bida omnem gregem contaminet. 




Digitized by Google 




(gufe of JJf. $enebtcf 



91 



He vouchsafed to lay it on His own sacred shoulders 
and so bring it back to the flock. 

CHAPTER XXVIII. 

Of those who, being often corrected, 

DO NOT AMEND. 

F any brother who has been fre- 5 Mar. 
quently corrected for some fault, 4 Nov. 
or even excommunicated, do not amend 
let a more severe chastisement be ap- 
plied: that is, let the punishment of stripes be 
administered to him. But if even then he do not 
correct himself, or perchance (which God forbid), 
puffed up with pride, even wish to defend his deeds : 
then let the Abbot act like a wise physician. If he 
hath applied fomentations and the unction of his 
admonitions, the medicine of the Holy Scriptures, 
and the last remedy of excommunication or corporal 
chastisement, and if he see that his labours are of 
no avail, let him add what is still more powerful — 
his own prayers and those of all the brethren for 
him, that God, Who is all-powerful, may work the 
cure of the sick brother. But if he be not healed 
even by this means, then at length let the Abbot 
use the sword of separation, as the Apostle saith : 
u Put away the evil one from you/' And again : 
“ If the faithless one depart, let him depart/' lest 
one diseased sheep should taint the whole flock. 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




92 



(gegufft JJ. Q^eneMcfi 



CAPUT XXIX. 

Si dbbbant iterum recipi Fratres exeuntes 
de Monasterio. 

RATER, qui proprio vitio egre- 6Mar. 

6 J ulii 

ditur, aut projicitur de Mona- s«ov. 
sterio, si reverti voluerit, spondeat prius 
omnem emendationem vitii pro quo 
egressus est, et sic in ultimo gradu recipiatur, ut ex 
hoc ejus humilitas comprobetur. Quod si denuo 
exierit, usque tertio ita recipiatur, jam vero postea 
sciens omnem sibi reversionis aditum denegari. 




CAPUT XXX. 



DE PUERIS MINORI iETATB, qualiter corripiantur. 



|MNIS aetas vel intellectus proprias 7 m». 
debet habere mensuras. Ideo- e fio” 
que quoties pueri, vel adolescentiores 
aetate, aut qui minus intelligere possunt 
quanta poena sit excommunicationis, hi tales dum 
delinquunt, aut jejuniis nimiis affligantur, aut acri- 
bus verberibus coerceantur, ut sanentur. 






(gttfe of (geneticf 



93 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

Whbthbr the Brethren who leave the 
Monastery are to be rbceived again. 

F any Brother, who through his 6 Mar. 
own fault departeth or is cast s&ov. 
out of the Monastery, be willing to 
return, let him first undertake to amend 
entirely the fault for which he went away ; and 
then let him be received back into the lowest place, 
that thus his humility may be tried. Should he 
again depart, let him be taken back until the third 
time : knowing that after this all return will be 
denied to him. 




CHAPTER XXX. 



HOW THE YOUNGER BOYS ARB TO BE CORRECTED. 

ERY age and understanding 7 Mar. 
should have its proper measure 
of discipline. As often, therefore, as 
boys, or others under age, or unable to 
understand the greatness of the penalty of excom- 
munication, commit faults, let them be punished 
by severe fasting or sharp stripes, in order that 
they may be cured. 




Digitized by v^ooQle 



94 



QJegufft £. (genettcft 



CAPUT XXXI. 

Db Cellerario Monasterii, qualis sit. 

ELLERARIUS Monasterii eliga- 8 Mar. 
tur de congregatione sapiens, 7 Nov. 
maturus moribus, sobrius, non multum 
edax, non elatus, non turbulentus, non 
injuriosus, non tardus, non prodigus, sed timens 
Deum, qui omni Congregationi sit sicut pater. 
Curam gerat de omnibus: sine jussione Abbatis 
nihil faciat Quae jubentur, custodiat : fratres non 
contristet. Si quis frater ab eo forte aliqua irra- 
tionabiliter 'postulat, non spernendo eum contristet, 
sed rationabiliter cum humilitate male petenti de- 
neget. Animam suam custodiat, memor semper 
illud Apostolicum quia qui bette ministraverit , 
gradum bonum sibi acquirit . [1 Tim. iii. 13.] In- 

firmorum, infantium, hospitum, pauperumque cum 
omni solicitudine curam gerat, sciens sine dubio, 
quia pro his omnibus in die judicii rationem reddi- 
turus est. Omnia vasa Monasterii cunctamque 
substantiam, ac si altaris vasa sacrata conspiciat. 



i Google 




(gttfe of J$f. $enebtcf 



95 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

What kind of man the Cellarer of the 
Monastery is to be. 



ET there be chosen out of the 8 Mar. 

8 July 

community, as Cellarer of the 7 Nov. 
Monastery, a man wise and of mature 
character, temperate, not a great eater, 
not haughty, nor headstrong, nor arrogant, not 
slothful, nor wasteful, but a God-fearing man, who 
may be like a father to the whole community. Let 
him have the care of everything, but do nothing 
without leave of the Abbot. Let him take heed to 
what is commanded him, and not sadden his breth- 



ren. If a brother ask him for anything unreason- 
ably, let him not treat him with contempt and so 
grieve him, but reasonably and with all humility 
refuse what he asks for amiss. Let him be watch- 



ful over his own soul, remembering always that 
saying of the Apostle, that “ he that hath minis- 
tered well, purchaseth to himself a good degree." 
Let him have especial care of the sick, of the 
children, of guests and of the poor, knowing without 
doubt that he will have to render an account of all 



these on the Day of Judgment. Let him look upon 
all the vessels and goods of the Monastery as 
though they were the consecrated vessels of the 



Digitized by v^ooQle 




96 



(gegufa (genebtcti 



Nihil ducat negligendum : neque avaritias studeat, 
neque prodigus sit, et exstirpator substantiae Mona- 
sterii; sed omnia mensurate faciat, et secundum 
jussionem Abbatis sui. 



Humilitatem ante omnia habeat, et cui oMar 

* . 9 Julii 

substantia non est quae tribuatur, sermo 8Noy. 
responsionis porrigatur bonus, quia scriptum est : 
Sermo bonus super datum optimum . [Eccli. xviii. 
17.] Omnia quae ei injunxerit Abbas, ipse habeat 
sub cura sua ; a quibus eum prohibuerit, non prae- 
sumat. Fratribus constitutam annonam sine aliquo 
typo* vel mora offerat, ut non scandalizentur, memor 
divini eloquii, quid mereatur qui scandalizaverit 
unum de pusillis : Expedit ei, ut suspendatur mola 
asinaria in collo ejus, et demergatur in profundum 
maris . [Matt, xviii. 6.] Si Congregatio major 
fuerit, solatia ei dentur, a quibus adjutus, et ipse 
aequo animo impleat officium sibi commissum. 
Horis competentibus dentur quae danda sunt, et 
petantur quae petenda sunt : ut nemo perturbetur, 
neque contristetur in domo Dei. 



* Note N — Sine typo. 



Digitized by CjOO^Ic 





®ufe of gt (genebkt 



97 



altar. Let him not think that he may neglect any- 
thing : let him not be given to covetousness, nor 
wasteful, nor a squanderer of the goods of the 
Monastery; but do all things in proper measure, 
and according to the bidding of his Abbot. 



Let him above all things have humility ; 9 Mar. 
and to him on whom he hath nothing else to lit. 
bestow, let him give at least a kind answer, as it is 
written : “A good word is above the best gift." 
Let him have under his care all that the Abbot 
may enjoin him, and presume not to meddle with 
what is forbidden him. Let him distribute to the 
brethren their appointed allowance of food, without 
arrogance * or delay, that they be not scandalised : 
mindful of what the Word of God declareth him to 
deserve, who “ shall scandalise one of these little 
ones ” : namely, 44 that a mill-stone be hanged about 
hi? neck and that he be drowned in the depths of 
the sea.” If the community be large, let helpers 
be given to him, by whose aid he may with peace 
of mind discharge the office committed to him. 
Let such things as are necessary be given and 
asked for at befitting times, that no one may be 
troubled nor grieved in the house of God. 



Digitized by Google 




98 



(gegttfo <$enetf eft 



CAPUT XXXII. 

Db FERRAMENTIS, VBL RBBU8 M0NA8TBRU. 

UBSTANTIA Monasterii in ferra- ioMar. 
mentis, vel vestibus, seu quibus- *9 &ov. 
libet rebus, provideat Abbas fratres, de 
quorum vita et moribus securus sit: 
et eis singula, ut utile judicaverit, consignet custo- 
dienda, atque recolligenda. Ex quibus Abbas 
brevem teneat : ut dum sibi in ipsa assignata 
fratres vicibus succedunt, sciat quid dat, et quid 
recipit. Si quis autem sordide aut negligenter res 
Monasterii tractaverit, corripiatur ; si non emenda- 
verit, disciplinae regulari subjaceat 



CAPUT XXXIII. 

Sl QUID DEBEANT MONACHI PROPRIUM HABBRB. 

RECIPUE hoc vitium peculiare n Mar. 
radicitus amputandum est de zo£ov. 
Monasterio, ne quis praesumat aliquid 
dare aut accipere sine jussione Abbatis, 
neque aliquid habere proprium, nullam omnino rem, 




y Google 





®ufe of gf. (genetici 



99 




CHAPTER XXXI I. 

Op the Iron Tools, and Property of the 
Monastery. 

ET the Abbot appoint brethren, xoMar. 
on whose manner of life and *9^. 
character he can rely, to the charge of 
the iron tools, clothes, and other pro- 
perty of the Monastery ; and let him consign to 
their care, as he shall think fit, the things to be 
kept and collected after use. Of these let the 
Abbot keep a list, so that as the brethren in turn 
succeed to different employments, he may know 
what he giveth and receiveth back. If any one 
treat the property of the Monastery in a slovenly 
or negligent manner, let him be corrected ; and if 
he do not amend, let him be subjected to the dis- 
cipline of the Rule. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

Whether Monks ought to have anything op 

THEIR OWN. 

HE vice of private ownership is ix Mar. 
above all to be cut off from the " fiov. 
Monastery by the roots. Let none 
presume to give or receive anything 
without leave of the Abbot, nor to keep anything 




y Google 





100 



(gegufa JJ. ®enefctcft 



neque codicem, neque tabulas, neque graphium, sed 
nihil omnino : quippe quibus nec corpora sua, nec 
voluntates licet habere in propria potestate. Omnia 
vero necessaria a Patre sperare Monasterii ; nec 
quicquam liceat habere, quod Abbas non dederit 
aut permiserit. Omniaque omnibus sint communia, 
ut scriptum est, nec quisquam suum esse aliquid 
dicat aut prcesumat. [Act. iv. 32.] Quod si quis- 
quam hoc nequissimo vitio deprehensus fuerit 
delectari, admoneatur semel et iterum : si non 

emendaverit, correctioni subjaceat. 



CAPUT XXXIV. 

Si omnes debeant «qualiter necessaria 

ACCIPBRB. 

ICUT scriptum est: Dividebatur wMar. 

. , . . 12 Julii 

singulis , prout cuique opus erat . « Nov. 
[Act. iv. 35.] Ubi non dicimus, ut per- 
sonarum (quod absit) acceptio sit, sed 
infirmitatum consideratio. Ubi qui minus indiget, 
agat Deo gratias, et non contristetur ; qui vero plus 
indiget, humilietur pro infirmitate, et non extollatur 



/ Google 





QJttfe of J5f. ®eitel>tcf 



101 



as their own, either book or writing-tablet or pen, 
or anything whatsoever ; since they are permitted 
to have neither body nor will in their own power. 
But all that is necessary they may hope to receive 
from the father of the Monastery : nor are they 
allowed to keep anything which the Abbot has not 
given, or at least permitted them to have. Let all 
things be common to all, as it is written : 44 Neither 
did any one say that aught which he possessed was 
his own.” But if any one shall be found to indulge 
in this most baneful vice, and after one or two ad- 
monitions do not amend, let him be subjected to 
correction. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

Whether all ought alike to receive what is 

NEEDFUL. 

S it is written : 44 Distribution was « Mar. 
made to every man, according ” &ov f 
as he had need.” Herein we do not 
say that there should be respecting of 
persons — God forbid — but consideration for in- 
firmities. Let him, therefore, that hath need of 
less give thanks to God, and not be grieved ; and 
let him who requireth more be humbled for his 
infirmity, and not made proud by the kindness 




Digitized by Google 




102 



(gegufft $enebtefi 



pro misericordia, et ita omnia membra erunt in pace. 
Ante omnia, ne murmurationis malum pro quali- 
cumque causa, in aliquo qualicumque verbo vel 
significatione appareat. Quod si deprehensus fuerit 
quis, districtiori disciplinae subdatur. 



CAPUT XXXV. 

Db Sbptimanariis Coquina. 

RATRES sic sibi invicem serviant, 13 Mar. 
ut nullus excusetur a coquinae xsifov. 
officio, nisi aut aegritudine, aut in causa 
gravis utilitatis quis occupatus fuerit ; 
quia exinde major merces et caritas acquiritur. 
Imbecillibus autem procurentur solatia, ut non 
cum tristitia hoc faciant ; sed habeant omnes sola- 1 
tia, secundum modum Congregationis aut posi- 
tionem loci. Si major fuerit Congregatio, Cellera- 
rius excusetur a coquina ; vel si qui (ut diximus) 
majoribus utilitatibus occupantur. Cseteri sibi sub 
caritate invicem serviant. Egressurus de septi- 4 




Digitized by Google 





QJufe of gt (genebicf 



103 



shewn to him : and so all the members of the 
family shall be at peace. Above all, let not the 
evil of murmuring shew itself by the slightest word 
or sign on any account whatsoever. If any one be 
found guilty herein, let him be subjected to very 
severe punishment. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 



Of thb Wbbkly Sbrvbrs in thb Kitchen. 




ET the brethren wait on one X3 Mar. 
another in turn, so that none be » 
excused from the work of the kitchen, 
except he be prevented by sickness or 
by some more necessary employment : for thus is A 
gained a greater reward and an increase of charity. 
But let assistance be given to the weak, that they 
may not do their work with sadness : and let all 
have help according to the number of the com- 
munity and the situation of the place. If the com- 
munity be large, let the Cellarer be excused from 
work in the kitchen, and also those, as already men- 
tioned, who are occupied in more urgent business. 
Let the rest serve each other in turn with all 
charity. Let him who endeth his week in the 



Digitized by L jOOQle 




104 



QJegufa J£. #enefctefi 



mana, Sabbato munditias faciat. Lintea, cum 
quibus sibi fratres manus aut pedes tergunt, lavet : 
pedes vero tam ipse, qui egreditur, quam ille, qui 
intraturus est, omnibus lavent. Vasa ministerii sui 
munda et sana Cellarario reconsignet ; qui Cellera- 
rius item intranti consignet, ut sciat quid dat, aut 
quid recipit. 



Septimanarii autem, ante unam horam 14 Mar. 

m . . . . 14 Julii 

refectionis, accipiant super statutam anno- X3N0V. 
nam singulos biberes, et panem : ut hora refectionis, 
sine murmuratione et gravi labore, serviant fratri- 
bus suis. In diebus tamen solemnibus usque ad 
Missas sustineant.* Intrantes autem et exeuntes 
hebdomadarii, in Oratorio, mox Matutinis finitis, 
Dominica, omnium genibus provolvantur, postu- 
lantes pro se orari. Egrediens autem de septimana 
dicat hunc versum : Benedictus es Domine Deus 9 
qui adjuvisti me> et consolatus es me. [Ps. lxxxv. 
17.] Quo dicto tertio, accipiat benedictionem egre- 
diens.t Subsequatur ingrediens et dicat : Deus in 
adjutorium meum intende ; Domine ad adjuvan- 
dum me festina . [Ps. lxix. 2.] Et hoc idem tertio 
repetatur ab omnibus, et accepta benedictione, in- 
grediatur. 

* Note O . — Usque ad missas sustineant . 
t Accipiat benedictionem. See Note E. 



Digitized by Google 





QJufe of j&f. $ene&tef 



105 



kitchen, make all things clean on Saturday, and 
wash the towels wherewith the brethren dry their 
hands and feet. Let both him who goeth out and 
him who is coming in wash the feet of all. Let 
him hand over to the Cellarer the vessels of his 
office, clean and whole ; and let the Cellarer deliver 
the same to him who entereth, that he may know 
what he giveth and what he receiveth. 



Let the weekly servers take each a cup 14 Mar. 
of drink and a piece of bread over and above ^3 fiw. 
the appointed portion, one hour before the time for 
refection, that so they may serve their brethren, 
when the hour cometh, without murmuring or 
great labour. On solemn days, however, let them 
forbear until after Mass.* On Sunday, as soon as 
Lauds are ended, let both the incoming and the 
outgoing servers fall on their knees before all, in 
the Oratory, and ask their prayers. Let him who 
endeth his week, say this verse : “ Blessed art Thou, 
Lord God, Who hast helped me and comforted me 
which being thrice repeated, he shall receive the 
blessing.t Let him that beginneth his week follow, 
and say : “ O God, come to my assistance : O Lord, 
make haste to help me." Let this likewise be thrice 
repeated by all ; and having received the blessing, 
let him enter on his office. 



Digitized by Google 




106 



Q$«gufa £. $en<bictt 



CAPUT XXXVI. 



Db Infirmis Pr atri bus. 



NPIRMORUM curst suite omnia 15 Max. 
et super omnia adhibenda est, JJ&ov. 
ut sicut revera Christo, ita eis servia- 
tur, quia ipse dixit : Infirmus fui , et 
visitastis fne. [Matth. xxv. 36.] Bt: Quod fecistis 
uni de his minimis meis , mihi fecistis . Sed et 
ipsi infirmi considerent, in honorem Dei sibi serviri, 
et non superfluitate sua contristent fratres suos, 
servientes sibi. Qui tamen patienter portandi sunt ; 
quia de talibus copiosior merces acquiritur. Brgo 
cura maxima sit Abbati, ne aliquam negligentiam 
patiantur. Quibus fratribus infirmis sit cella super 
se deputata, et servitor timens Deum, et diligens 
ac solicitus. Balnearum usus infirmis, quoties 
expedit, offeratur. Sanis autem, et maxime 
juvenibus, tardius concedatur. Sed et carnium 
esus infirmis, et omnino debilibus pro reparatione 
concedatur. At ubi meliorati fuerint, a carnibus 
more solito omnes abstineant. Curam autem maxi- 
mam habeat Abbas, ne a Cellerariis aut a servitori- 



^0©gle 




QJttfe of gf. (genettcf 



107 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 
Op the Sick Brethrbn. 




EFORE all things and above all 15 Mar. 
things care is to be had of the 3». 
sick, that they be served in very deed 
as Christ Himself, for He hath said : 



M I was sick, and ye visited Me.” And, “ What ye 
have done unto one of these little ones, ye have 
done unto Me.” And let the sick themselves 



remember that they are served for the honour of 
God, and not grieve the brethren who serve them 
by unnecessary demands. Yet must they be 
patiently borne with, because from such as these 
is gained a more abundant reward. Let it be there- 
fore the Abbot's greatest care that they suffer no 
neglect. And let a cell be set apart by itself for 
the sick brethren, and one who is God-fearing, 
diligent, and careful, be appointed to serve them. 
Let the use of baths be allowed to the sick as often 



as may be expedient ; but to those who are well, 
and especially to the young, let it be granted more 
seldom. Let the use of flesh meat also be per- 
mitted to the sick and to those that are very 
weakly, for their recovery: but when they are 
restored to health, let all abstain from meat in the 



accustomed manner. The Abbot must take all 



possible care that the sick be not neglected by the 



Digitized by LjOOQle 





108 



£• (gencbtcft 

bus negligantur infirmi: quia ad ipsum respicit, 
quicquid a discipulis delinquitur. 

CAPUT XXXVII. 

Db Sbnibus, vbl Infantibus. 

ICBT ip*a natura humana trahatur 16 Max. 
ad misericordiam in his aetatibus, IS &o». 
senum videlicet et infantum : tamen et 
Regulae auctoritas eis prospiciat. Con- 
sideretur semper in eis imbecillitas, et nullatenus 
eis districtio Reguls teneatur in alimentis ; sed sit 
in eis pia consideratio, et praeveniant horas canoni- 
cas. 




CAPUT XXXVIII. 



Db H bbdom adario Lectore. 

ENSIS fratrum edentium lectio . 7 Mar. 
deesse non debet: ne fortuito Is fe'v. 
casu, qui arripuerit codicem, audeat 
legere ibi, sed lecturus tota hebdomada, 
Dominica ingrediatur. Qui ingrediens, post Missas 




Digitized by v^ooQle 



(gufe of JJt. (genebtcf 



109 



Cellarer or servers : because whatever is done amiss 
by his disciples is laid to his charge. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 1. 

Of Old Men and Children. 

LTHOUGH human nature is of 16 Mar. 
itself drawn to feel pity for these *1 £ov. 
two times of life, namely old age and 
infancy, yet the authority of the Rule 
should also provide for them. Let their weakness 
be always taken into account, and the strictness of 
the Rule respecting food be by no means kept in 
their regard ; but let a kind consideration be shewen 
for them, and let them eat before the regular 
hours. 




CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

Of the Weekly Rbadbr. 

BADING must not be wanting 17 Mar. 
while the brethren eat at table; 



nor let any one who may chance to 
have taken up the book presume to 
read, but let him who is to read throughout the 



y Google 





no 



(geoufa £. $enebieft 



ct Communionem, petat ab omnibus pro se orari, 
ut avertat ab ipso Deus spiritum elationis. Bt 
dicatur hic versus in Oratorio tertio ab omnibus, 
ipso tamen incipiente : Domine labia mea aperies , 
et os meum annuntiabit laudem tuam ; [Ps. 1. 17.] 
et sic accepta benedictione, ingrediatur ad legen- 
dum ; et summum fiat silentium, ut nullius mussi- 
tatio, vel vox, nisi solius legentis ibi audiatur. 

Quae vero necessaria sunt comedentibus et biben- 
tibus, sibi sic vicissim ministrent fratres, ut nullus 
indigeat petere aliquid. Si quid tamen opus fuerit, 
sonitu cujuscumque signi potius petatur quam voce. 
Nec praesumat ibi aliquis de ipsa lectione, aut 
aliunde quicquam requirere, ne detur occasio, nisi 
forte Prior pro aedificatione voluerit aliquid breviter 
dicere. Frater autem lector hebdomadarius ac- 
cipiat mixtum prius quam incipiat legere, propter 
Communionem sanctam,* et ne forte grave sit ei 
jejunium sustinere ; postea autem cum coquinae 
hebdomadariis et servitoribus reficiat Fratres 
autem non per ordinem legant aut cantent, sed qui 
aedificent audientes. 



* Note P . — Mixtum . . . propter Communionem sanctam. 



Digitized by Google 





(gttfe of (genebtef 



ill 



week begin upon the Sunday. After Mass and 
Communion, let him ask all to pray for him, that 
God may keep from him the spirit of pride. And 
let this verse be said thrice in the Oratory, he him- 
self beginning it : 44 O Lord, Thou shalt open my 
lips, and my mouth shall declare Thy praise/' 
And so, having received the blessing, let him enter 
on his reading. The greatest silence must be kept 
at table, sq that no whispering may be heard there, 
nor any voice except that of him who readeth. And 
whatever is necessary for food or drink let the 
brethren so minister to each other, that no one 
need ask for anything: but should anything be 
wanted, let it be asked for by a sign rather than by 
the voice. And let no one presume to put any 
questions there, either about the reading or about 
anything else, lest it should give occasion for 
talking : unless perchance the Superior should wish 
to say a few words for the edification of the 
brethren. Let the brother who is reader for the 
week take a little bread and wine before he begin 
to read, on account of the Holy Communion,* and 
lest it be hard for him to fast so long. Afterwards 
let him take his meal with the weekly cooks and 
other servers. The brethren are not to read or 
sing according to their order, but such only as may 
edify the hearers. 



Digitized by Google 




112 



(TJegufa Jl. (genefctefi 



CAPUT XXXIX. 
Db Mensura Ciborum. 




UPPICERE credimus ad refe- 
ctionem quotidianam tam Sextae, 
quam Nonae, omnibus mensibus cocta 
duo pulmentaria, propter diversorum 



x 8 Mar. 
18 Tnlii 
17 Nor. 



infirmitates : ut forte qui ex uno non poterit edere, 



ex alio reficiatur. Ergo duo pulmentaria cocta 



fratribus omnibus sufficiant ; et si fuerint inde 



poma, aut nascentia leguminum, addatur et ter- 
tium. Panis libra una propensa sufficiat in die, 
sive una sit refectio, sive prandii et coenae. Quod 
si ccenaturi sunt, de eadem libra tertia pars a Cel- 
lerario servetur, reddenda ccenaturis. Quod si 
labor forte factus fuerit major, in arbitrio et potes- 
tate Abbatis erit, si expediat, aliquid augere, remota 
prae omnibus crapula, et ut nunquam surripiat 
monacho indigenes : quia nihil sic contrarium est 
omni Christiano, quomodo crapula, sicut ait Domi- 
nus noster : Videte ne graventur corda vestra in 
crapula . [Luc. xxi. 34.] Pueris vero minori aetate 
non eadem servetur quantitas, sed minor quam 
majoribus, servata in omnibus parcitate. Carnium 
vero quadrupedum omnimodo ab omnibus abstine- 
atur comestio, praeter omnino debiles et aegrotos. 



Digitized by v^.ooQle 





(gufe of gt ®ene*tef 113 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

Of the Mbasurb of Pood. 

E think it sufficient for the daily iSMar. 

18 July 

meal, whether at the sixth or 17 Nov., 
the ninth hour, that there be at all 
seasons of the year two dishes of 
cooked food, because of the weakness of different 
people ; so that he who perchance cannot eat of 
the one, may make his meal of the other. Let two 
dishes, then, suffice for all the brethren ; and if 
there be any fruit or young vegetables, let a third 
be added. Let one pound weight of bread suffice 
for the day, whether there be but one meal, or both 
dinner and supper. If they are to sup, let a third 
part of the pound be kept back by the Cellarer, and 
given to them for supper. If, however, their work 
chance to have been hard, it shall be in the Abbot's 
power, if he think fit, to make some addition, avoiding 
above everything, all surfeiting, that the monks be 
not overtaken by indigestion. For there is nothing 
so adverse to a Christian as gluttony, according to 
the words of our Lord : “ See that your hearts be 
not overcharged with surfeiting." And let not the 
same quantity be allotted to children of tender 
years, but less than to their elders, moderation being 
observed in every case. Let every one abstain 
altogether from the flesh of four-footed animals, 
except the very weak and the sick. 




Digitized by Google 





114 



(gegufa J§. (genefctcft 



CAPUT XL. 

De Mensura Potus. 




|NUSQUISQUE proprium habet i 9 Mar. 
donum ex Deo : alius sic, alius Is {?ov. 
vero sic. Et ideo cum aliqua scrupu- 
lositate a nobis mensura victus aliorum 
constituitur. Tamen infirmorum contuentes im- 
becillitatem, credimus heminam vini per singulos 
sufficere per diem. Quibus autem donat Deus 
tolerantiam abstinentiae, propriam se habituros 
mercedem sciant * 

Quod si aut loci necessitas, vel labor, aut ardor 
aestatis, amplius poposcerit, in arbitrio Prioris con- 
sistat, considerans in omnibus, ne subrepat satietas 
aut ebrietas. Licet legamus vinum omnino mona- 
chorum non esse ; sed quia nostris temporibus id 
monachis persuaderi non potest, saltem vel hoc 
consentiamus, ut non usque ad satietatem bibamus, 
sed parcius : quia vinum apostatare facit etiam 
sapientes . [Eccli. xix. 2.] Ubi autem loci neces- 
sitas exposcit, ut nec suprascripta mensura inveniri 
possit, sed multo minus, aut ex toto nihil, bene- 
dicant Deum, qui ibi habitant, et non murmurent. 
Hoc autem omnino admonentes, ut absque mur- 
murationibus sint. 



Digitized by Google 



QJufe of j&t> $enefctcf 



115 



CHAPTER XL. 




Of the Measure of Drink. 

VERY one hath his proper gift Z9 Mar. 
from God, one after this manner, as. 
another after that. And therefore it is 
with some misgiving that we appoint 
the measure of other men's living. Yet considering 
the infirmity of the weak, we think that one pint of 
wine a day is sufficient for each : but let those to 
whom God gives the endurance of abstinence know 
that they shall have their proper reward. If, how- 
ever the situation of the place, the work, or the 
heat of summer require more, let it be in the power 
of the Superior to grant it ; taking care in every 
thing that surfeit or drunkenness creep not in. And 
although we read that wine ought by no means to 
be the drink of monks, yet since in our times monks 
cannot be persuaded of this, let us at least agree 
not to drink to satiety, but sparingly : because “ wine 
maketh even the wise to fall away." But where 
the necessity of the place alloweth not even the 
aforesaid measure, but much less, or none at all, let 
those who dwell there bless God and not murmur. 
This above all we admonish, that there be no mur- 
muring among them. 



i Google 




116 



(gegufa £. $enedicft 



CAPUT XLI. 

Quibus horis oportbat rbpicbrb Fratres. 

SANCTO Pascha usque Pente- a© Mar. 
costen ad Sextam reficiant 
fratres, et ad seram coenent. A Pente- 
coste autem tota aestate (si labores 
agrorum non habent monachi, aut nimietas aestatis 
non perturbat) quarta et sexta feria jejunent usque 
ad Nonam : reliquis diebus ad Sextam prandeant. 
Quae prandii Sexta, si opera in agris habuerint, aut 
aestatis fervor nimius fuerit, continuanda erit, et in 
Abbatis sit providentia. Bt sic omnia temperet 
atque disponat, qualiter et animae salventur, et 
quod faciunt fratres, absque justa murmuratione 
faciant. Ab Idibus autem Septembris, usque ad 
caput Quadragesimae, ad Nonam semper reficiant. 
In Quadragesima vero usque ad Pascha, ad Ves- 
peram reficiant. Ipsa tamen vespera sic agatur, 
ut lumine lucernae non indigeant reficientes, sed 
luce adhuc diei omnia consummentur. Sed et 
omni tempore, sive coenae sive refectionis, hora sic 
temperetur, ut cum luce fiant omnia. 




Digitized by 



f 

Google 





(gttfe of Jft. (genebtcf 



117 



CHAPTBR XLI. 

At what hours the brbthren are to 

TAKE THEIR MEALS 

ROM Holy Easter until Pentecost 20 Mar. 
let the brethren dine at the sixth % £ov. 
hour, and sup in the evening. But 
from Pentecost throughout the summer 
(unless they have to work in the the fields, or are 
harassed by excessive heat) let them fast on 
Wednesdays and Fridays until the ninth hour, but 
on other days dine at the sixth. Should they have 
field labour, or should the heat of the summer be 
very great, they must always take their dinner at 
the sixth hour. Let the Abbot provide for this, and 
let him so arrange and dispose all things, that souls 
may be saved, and that the brethren may do what 
they have to do without just cause for murmuring. 
From the fourteenth of September until the be- 
ginning of Lent let them always dine at the ninth 
hour ; and during Lent, until Easter, in the evening. 
And let the hour of the evening meal be so ordered 
that they have no need of a lamp while eating, 
but let all be over while it is yet daylight. At all 
times, whether of dinner or supper, let the hour be 
so arranged that everything be done by daylight. 




Digitized by Google 





118 



(gegufa £. (genefctcft 



CAPUT XLII. 

Ut post Completorium nemo loquatur. 

IMNI tempore silentio debent ax Mar. 
studere monachi, maxime tamen » {?ov. 
nocturnis horis. Et ideo omni tem- 
pore, sive jejunii, sive prandii, si tem- 
pus fuerit prandii, mox ut surrexerint a coena, 
sedeant omnes in unum, et legat unus Collationes, 
vel Vitas Patrum, aut certe aliquid quod aedificet 
audientes ; non autem Heptaticum, aut Regum : 
quia infirmis intellectibus non erit utile # illa hora 
hanc Scripturam audire ; aliis vero horis legantur. 
Si autem jejunii dies fuerit, dicta Vespera, parvo 
intervallo, mox accedant ad lectionem Collationum, 
ut diximus ; et lectis quatuor aut quinque foliis, vel 
quantum hora permittit, omnibus in unum occur- 
rentibus per hanc moram lectionis, si quis forte 
in assignato sibi commisso fuerit occupatus, oc- 
currat. Omnes ergo in unum positi, compleant : 
et exeuntes a Completorio nulla sit licentia denuo 
cuiquam loqui aliquid. Quod si inventus fuerit 
quisquam praevaricari hane taciturnitatis regulam, 
gravi vindictae subjaceat ; excepto si necessitas 
* Note Q . — Infirmis intellectibus non erit utile. 



/ Google 



(gufc of gi. $ encWcf 



119 



CHAPTER XLII. 

That no one hay speak after Complinb. 




ONKS should love silence at all 2i Mar. 
times, but especially during the 20 &ov. 
hours of the night. Therefore, on all 
days, whether of fasting or otherwise, 
let them sit down all together as soon as they have 
risen from supper (if it be not a fast-day) and let 
one of them read the “ Conferences ” [of Cassian], 
or the lives of the Fathers, or something else which 
may edify the hearers. Not, however, Heptateuch, 
nor the Books of Kings : for it will not profit those 
of weak understanding to hear those parts of 
Scripture at that hour:* they may, however, be 
read at other times. If it be a fast-day, then a 
short time after Vespers let them assemble for the 
reading of the Conferences, as we have said ; four 
or five pages being read, or as much as time alloweth, 
so that during the reading all may gather together, 
even those who may have been occupied in some work 
enjoined them. Everyone, then, being assembled, let 
them say Compline ; and when that is finished, let 
none be allowed to speak to any one. And if any 
one be found to evade this rule of silence, let him be 
subjected to severe punishment ; unless the pre- 
sence of guests should make it necessary, or the 



i Google 



120 



(gegufa J&. $enefcteft 



hospitum supervenerit, aut forte Abbas alicui ali- 
quid jusserit. Quod tamen et ipsum cum summa 
gravitate et moderatione honestissime fiat. 



CAPUT XLII1. 

Db his qui ad Opus Dei vbl ad mensam tardb 

OCCURRUNT. 

D horam Divini Officii, mox ut 22 Mar. 
auditum fuerit signum, relictis ax^v. 
omnibus, quaelibet fuerint in manibus, 
summa cum festinatione curratur ; cum 
gravitate tamen, ut non scurrilitas inveniat fomi- 
tem. Er&o nihil Operi Dei praeponatur. Quod si 
quis Nocturnis Vigiliis post Gloriam Psalmi nona- 
gesimi quarti (quem propter hoc omnino protra- 
hendo et morose volumus dici) occurrerit, non stet 
in ordine suo in choro, sed ultimus omnium stet, 
aut in loco quem talibus negiigentibus seorsum 
constituerit Abbas, ut videatur ab ipso, vel ab 
omnibus, usque dum completo Opere Dei, satis- 
factione publica pceniteat. 

Ideo autem eos in ultimo aut seorsum judicavi- 
mus debere stare, ut visi ab omnibus, vel pro ipsa 
verecundia sua emendentur. Nam si foris Oratorio 
remaneant, erit forte talis qui se aut recollocet et 




Digitized by Google 




QJttfe of JJt Q^enebtcf 



121 



Abbot should chance to give any command. Yet, 
even then, let it be done with the utmost gravity and 
moderation. 



CHAPTER XLIII. 

Of those who come late to the Work 
of God, or to tablb. 

the hour of Divine Office, as a2 Mar. 
soon as the signal is heard, let 21 ^JOV. 
every one, leaving whatever he had in 
hand, hasten to the Oratory with all 
speed, and yet with seriousness, so that no occasion 
be given for levity. 

Let nothing, then, be preferred to the Work of 
God. And should any one come to the Night-Office 
after the Gloria of the ninety-fourth Psalm (which 
for this reason we wish to be said very slowly and 
protractedly), let him not stand in his order in the 
choir, but last of all, or in the place set apart by 
the Abbot for the negligent, so that he may be seen 
by him and by all, until, the work of God being 
ended, he have made satisfaction by public penance. 
The reason why we have judged it fitting for them 
to stand in the last place, or apart, is that, being 
seen of all, they may amend for very shame. For, 
if they were to remain outside the Oratory, some 
one perchance would return to his place and go to 
sleep, or at all events would sit down outside, and 




Digitized by Google 





122 



(gegufa (genefctcft 



dormiat, aut certe sedeat sibi foris, vel fabulis 
vacet, et detur occasio maligno; sed ingrediatur 
intus, ut nec totum perdat, et de reliquo emendetur. 
Diurnis autem Horis, qui ad Opus Dei post Versum* 
et Gloriam primi Psalmi qui post Versum dicitur, 
occurrerit, lege qua supradiximus, in ultimo stet : 
nec praesumat sociari choro psallentium usque ad 
satisfactionem, nisi forte Abbas licentiam dederit 
permissione sua ; ita tamen, ut satisfaciat reus ex 
hoc. 

Ad mensam autem qui ante versum non a 3 Mar. 

. . . «• 23 Julii 

occurrerit, ut simul omnes dicant versum et *2 Nov. 
orent, et sub uno omnes accedant ad mensam ; qui 
per negligentiam suam aut vitium non occurrerit, 
usque secundam vicem pro hoc corripiatur: si 
denuo non emendaverit, non permittatur ad mensae 
communis participationem, sed sequestratus a con- 
sortio omnium reficiat solus, sublata ei portione sua 
de vino, usque ad satisfactionem et emendationem. 
Similiter autem patiatur, qui et ad illum Versum 
non fuerit praesens, qui post cibum dicitur. Nec 
quisquam praesumat ante statutam horam, vel pos- 
tea quidquam cibi aut potus percipere. Sed et si 
cui offertur aliquid a Priore, et accipere renuerit, 
hora qua desideraverit hoc quod prius recusavit, 
aut aliud, omnino nihil percipiat, usque ad emenda- 
tionem congruam. 

* i. e., Deus in adjutorium meum intende . 



Digitized t5y 



Googk 





(gwfc of JH. (§en«btct 



128 



give himself to idle talk, and thus an occasion 
would be given to the evil one. Let him therefore 
enter, that he may not lose the whole, and may 
amend for the future. At the day Hours, let him 
who cometh to the Work of God after the Verse,* 
and the Gloria of the first Psalm which followeth it, 
stand in the last place, as ordered above, and not 
presume to join with the choir in the Divine Office, 
until he hath made satisfaction : unless perchance, 
the Abbot shall permit him so to do, on condition, 
however, that he afterwards do penance. 

If any one, through his own negligence 23 Mar. 
and fault, come not to table before the Verse, ll &ov. 
so that all may say this and the prayer together, 
and together sit down to table, let him be once or 
twice corrected. If after this he do not amend 
let him not be admitted to share in the common 
table, but be separated from the companionship of 
all, and eat alone, his portion of wine being taken 
from him, until he hath made satisfaction and 
amends. Let him be punished in like manner, who 
is not present also at the Verse which is said after 
meals. And let no one presume to take food or 
drink before or after the appointed hour : but 
should a brother be offered anything by the Superior, 
and refuse to take it, if he afterwards desire either 
what he before refused, or anything else, he shall 
receive nothing whatever, until he hath made proper 
satisfaction. 



Digitized by Google 





124 



(gegufa J§. (genefctcft 



CAPUT XL1V. 

Db HI8 QUI EXCOMMUNICANTUR, QUOMODO 
SATISFACIANT. 

UI pro gravioribus culpis ab Ora- 34 Mar. 

. . 34 Julii 

tono et a mensa excommum- 3 3 Nov. 
catur, bora, qua Opus Dei in Oratorio 
celebratur, ante fores Oratorii prostra- 
tus jaceat, nihil dicens ; nisi tantum posito in terra 
capite, stratus pronus omnium de Oratorio exeun- 
tium pedibus. Et hoc tamdiu faciat usque dum 
Abbas judicaverit satisfactum esse. Qui dum 
jussus ab Abbate venerit, volvat se ipsius Abbatis, 
deinde omnium vestigiis fratrum, ut orent pro ipso. 
Bt tunc, si jussent Abbas, recipiatur in choro, vel 
ordine, quo Abbas decreverit : ita sane, ut Psalmum 
aut lectionem vel aliud quid non praesumat in 
Oratorio imponere, nisi iterum Abbas jubeat. Bt 
omnibus Horis, dum percompletur Opus Dei, pro- 
jiciat se in terram, in loco in quo stat, et sic satis- 
faciat, usque dum ei jubeat iterum Abbas, ut 
quiescat ab hac satisfactione. Qui vero pro levibus 
culpis excommunicantur tantum a mensa, in Ora- 
torio satisfaciant usque ad jussionem Abbatis ; et 
tamdiu hoc perficiant, usque dum benedicat, et 
dicat: Sufficit. 



fed by GOO^IC 





(gufc of gf. ®enebtcf 



125 



CHAPTER XLIV. 



Op TH08B WHO ARB EXCOMMUNICATED, HOW 
THEY ARB TO MAKE SATISFACTION. 

BT him, who for graver offences 34 Mar. 
is excommunicated from the 23*?dv. 




Oratory and the table, prostrate him- 
self at the door of the Oratory, saying 
nothing, at the hour when the Work of God is being 
performed : lying prone, with his face upon the 
ground, at the feet of all who go out from the Oratory. 
Let him continue to do this until the Abbot judge 
that he hath made satisfaction ; and then, coming 
at the Abbot's bidding, let him cast himself at his 
feet and at the feet of all, that they may pray for 
him. After this, if the Abbot so order, let him be 
received back into the choir, in such a place as he 
shall appoint: yet so, that he presume not to 
intone Psalm or lesson, or anything else, in the 
Oratory, unless the Abbot again command him. 
And at all the Hours, when the Work of God is 
ended, let him cast himself on the ground, in the 
place where he standeth, and so make satisfaction, 
until such time as the Abbot bid him cease there- 
from. But let those, who for lighter faults are ex- 
communicated only from the table, make satisfaction 
in the Oratory so long as the Abbot shall command, 
and continue so doing until he bless them and say 
it is enough. 



i Google 




126 



QJegufa J}. (genefctcft 



CAPUT XLV. 



Db his qui falluntur in Oratorio. 

I quis, dum pronuntiat Psalmum, as Mar. 

. . . as Julii 

responsorium, ct antiphonam, a 4 Nov. 
vel lectionem, fefellerit : nisi satisfa- 
ctione ibi coram omnibus humiliatus 
fuerit, majori vindictae subjaceat ; quippe qui noluit 
humilitate corrigere, quod negligentia deliquit. In- 
fantes autem pro tali culpa vapulent.* 




CAPUT XLVI. 

Db his qui in aliis quibuslibet rebus 

DELINQUUNT. 

I quis dum in labore quovis, in 26 Mar. 
coquina, in cellario, in ministerio, 25 
in pistrino, in horto, in arte aliqua dum 
laborat, vel in quocumque loco aliquid 
deliquerit, aut fregerit quippiam, aut perdiderit, vel 
aliud quid excesserit ubi ubi, et non veniens con- 
tinuo ante Abbatem vel Congregationem, ipse ultro 
satisfecerit et prodiderit delictum suum ; dum per 
alium cognitum fuerit, majori subjaceat emenda- 
tioni, Si animae vero peccati causa fuerit latens, 
tantum Abbati, aut spiritualibus senioribus pate- 
faciat, qui sciant curare sua, et aliena vulnera non 
detegere et publicare. 

* Note R — Infantes .... vapulent. 




Digitized by Google 






QJttfe of $f. (getuitcf 



127 



CHAPTER XLV. 

Op thosb who makb mistakes in thb Oratory. 

P any one make a mistake in the 25 Mar. 
recitation of Psalm, responsory, 24^. 
antiphon, or lesson, and do not humble 
himself by making satisfaction there 
before all, let him be subjected to severer punish- 
ment, as one who would not correct by humility 
what he did wrong through negligence. But children 
for suclf faults are to be whipt.* 

CHAPTER XLVI. 



Of those who offend in any other matters. 

P any one, while at work in the 26 Mar. 
kitchen or the cellar, in serving as ^ov. 
the brethren, in the bakehouse or the 
garden, or at any other occupation or 
in any place whatever, commit any fault, or break 
or lose anything, or transgress in any other way, 
and do not come immediatly before the Abbot and 
community, and of himself confess and make satis- 
faction for his fault ; if it is made known by another, 
he shall be subjected to more severe correction. 
If, however, the guilt of his offence be hidden in his 
own soul, let him manifest it to the Abbot only, or 
to his spiritual seniors, who know how to heal their 
own wounds, and will not disclose or publish those 
of others. 




Digitized by v^ooQle 






128 



(gegufa gk. (genent eft 



CAPUT XLVI1. 

Dp significanda hora Operis Dei. 




UNTIANDA hora Operis Dei, die 27 Mar. 

. . t , 27 Julii 

noctuque sit cura Abbati, aut 26 Nov. 
ipse nuntiare, aut tali sollicito fratri 
injungat hanc curam, ut omnia horis 
competentibus compleantur. Psalmos autem, vel 
antiphonas post Abbatem, ordine suo, quibus jus- 
sum fuerit, imponant. Cantare autem aut legere 
non praesumat, nisi qui potest ipsum officium im- 
plere, ut aedificentur audientes. Quod cum humili- 
tate, et gravitate, et tremore flat, et cui j usserit 
Abbas. 



CAPUT XLVIII. 



De opere manuum quotidiano. 
TIOSITAS inimica est animae : et 2 8Mar. 

.28 Julii 

ideo certis temporibus occupari a 7 Nov. 
debent fratres in labore manuum : 
certis iterum horis in lectione divina. 
Ideoque hac dispositione credimus utraque tempora 
ordinari; id est, ut a Pascha usque Kalendas 
Octobris mane exeuntes, a prima usque ad horam 




y Google 



(gttfe of &f. (£enefctcf 



129 



CHAPTER XLV 1 I. 

Of signifying the hour for the Work of God. 

BT the announcing of the hour for 27 Mar 

27 July 

the Work of God, both by day 26N0V. 




and night, be the Abbot's care : either 
by signifying it himself, or by entrusting 
the duty to such a careful brother, that all things 
may be done at the appointed times. Let the 
Psalms and antiphons be intoned by those whose 
duty it is, each in his order, after the Abbot. Let 
no one presume to sing or to read except such as 
can so perform the office that the hearers may be 
edified. And let it be done with humility, gravity, 
and awe, and by those whom the Abbot hath 
appointed. 



CHAPTER XLVIII. 

Of thb daily manual labour. 

DLENESS is an enemy to the 28 Mar. 
soul; and hence at certain 27ft w. 
seasons the brethren ought to occupy 
themselves in the labour of their hands, 
and at others in holy reading. We think, there- 
fore, that the times for each may be disposed as 
follows: from Easter to the first of October, let 
them, in going from Prime in the morning, labour 



y Google 





130 



(gegufa J§. (genefcicft 



pene quartam laborent, quod necessarium fuerit. 
Ab hora autem quarta usque horam quasi sextam 
lectioni vacent. Post Sextam autem surgentes a 
mensa, pausent in lectis suis cum omni silentio ; 
aut forte qui voluerit sibi legere, sic legat, ut alium 
non inquietet. Bt agatur Nona temperius, medi- 
ante octava hora : et iterum, quod faciendum est, 
operentur usque ad vesperam. Si autem necessitas 
loci, aut paupertas exegerit, ut ad fruges recolli- 
gendas per se occupentur, non contristentur ; quia 
tunc vere monachi sunt, si labore manuum suarum 
vivunt, sicut et Patres nostri et Apostoli. Omnia 
tamen mensurate fiant propter pusillanimes. 



A Kalendis autem Octobris usque caput 29 Max. 
Quadragesimae, usque ad horam secundam ai^y. - 
plenam lectioni vacent : hora secunda agatur Tertia ; J 
et usque ad Nonam omnes in opus suum laborent, i 
quod eis injungitur. Pacto autem primo signo 
Nonae horae, disjungant se ab opere singuli, et sint 
parati, dum secundum signum pulsaverit. Post 
* refectionem autem vacent lectionibus suis, aut 
Psalmis. In Quadragesimae vero diebus, a mane i 
usque tertiam plenam, vacent lectionibus suis, et 



Digitized by 



Google 





(Jlufe of Q^enebtef 



131 



at whatever is required of them until about the 
fourth hour. From the fourth hour until near the 
sixth let them apply themselves to reading. And 
when they rise from table, after the sixth hour, let 
them rest on their beds in perfect silence ; or if 
any one perchance desire to read, let him do so in 
such a way as not to disturb any one else. Let 
None be said in good time, at about the middle of 
the eight hour ; and then let them again work at 
whatever has to be done, until Vespers. And if the 
needs of the place, or their poverty, oblige them to 
labour themselves at gathering in the crops, let them 
not be saddened thereat ; because then are they 
truly monks, when they live by the labour of their 
hands, as did our fathers and the Apostles. Yet let 
all be done with moderation, on account of the faint- 
hearted. 

From the first of October to the be- 29 Mar. 
ginning of Lent, let them apply to reading 28&0V. 
until the end of the second hour. Let Tierce be 
then said, and until the ninth hour let all labour at 
the work that is enjoined them. When the first 
signal for None is given, let every one break off 
from his work, and be ready as soon as the second 
signal is sounded. After their meal, let them occupy 
themselves in their reading, or in learning the 
Psalms. During Lent, let them apply themselves to 
reading from morning until the end of the third 



Digitized by Google 





132 



Q$esufa $enefctefi 



usque decimam plenam operentur quod eis injungi- 
tur. In quibus diebus Quadragesimae, accipiant 
omnes singulos codices de bibliotheca, quos per 
ordinem ex integro legant : qui codices in capite 
Quadragesimae dandi sunt Ante omnia sane de- 
putentur unus aut duo seniores, qui circumeant 
monasterium horis, quibus vacant fratres lectioni, 
et videant, ne forte inveniatur frater acediosus, qui 
vacet otio, aut fabulis, et non sit intentus lectioni : 
et non solum sibi inutilis est, sed etiam alios ex- 
tollit. Hic talis, si (quod absit) repertus fuerit, 
corripiatur semel et secundo : si non emendaverit, 
correptioni regulari subjaceat, taliter, ut caeteri 
timeant. Neque frater ad fratrem jungatur horis 
incompetentibus. 



Dominico autem die lectioni vacent omnes ; 3 o Mar. 
exceptis his qui variis officiis deputati sunt. 29 fi ov 
Si quis vero ita negligens et desidiosus fuerit, ut 
non velit aut possit meditari, aut legere, injungatur 
ei opus quod faciat, ut non vacet. Fratribus in- 
firmis aut delicatis talis opera aut ars injungatur, 
ut nec otiosi §int, nec violentia laboris opprimantur, 
ut effugentur. Quorum imbecillitas ab Abbate 
consideranda est. 



BTgftfzgd by Google 





QJufe of Qgenefctcf 



133 



hour, and then, until the end of the tenth, labour at 
whatever is enjoined them. And in these days of 
Lent let each one receive a book from the library, 
and read it all through in order. These books are 
to be given out at the beginning of Lent. Above all, 
let one or two seniors be appointed to go round the 
Monastery, at the hours when the brethren are en- 
gaged in reading, and see that there be no slothful 
brother giving himself to idleness or to foolish talk, 
and not applying himself to his reading, so that he 
is thus not only useless to himself, but a distraction 
to others. If such a one be found (which God for- 
bid) let him be corrected once and a second time ; 
and if he do not amend, let him be subjected to the 
chastisement of the Rule, so that the rest may be 
afraid. And let not one brother associate with an 
other at upseasonable hours. 

On Sunday, let all occupy themselves in 30 Mar. 
reading, except those who have been 29 fife 
appointed to the various offices. But if any one 
should be so negligent and slothful, as to be either 
unwilling or unable to study or to read, let some task 
be given him to do, that he be not idle. To brethren 
who are weak or delicate, let there be given such 
work or occupation as to prevent them either from 
being idle, or from being so oppressed by excessive 
labour as to be driven away. Their weakness must 
be taken into account by the Abbot. 



Digitized by Google 




134 



QJegufa §!>, $enedtcft 



CAPUT XL1X. 

Db Quadragbsim^b Observatione. 

ICET omni tempore vita monachi 31 Mar. 
Quadragesimae debeat observa- 30 & ov. 
tionem habere ; tamen quia paucorum 
est ista virtus, ideo suademus istis die- 
bus Quadragesimae omni puritate vitam suam custo- 
dire, omnes pariter et negligentias aliorum temporum 
his diebus sanctis diluere. Quod tunc digne fit, si 
ab omnibus vitiis nos temperamus : orationi cum 
fletibus, lectioni, et compunctioni cordis, atque 
abstinentiae operam demus. Brgo his diebus auge- 
amus nobis aliquid ad solitum pensum servitutis 
nostrae, orationes peculiares, ciborum et potus 
abstinentiam ; ut unusquisque super mensuram sibi 
indictam aliquid propria voluntate cum gaudio Sancti 
Spiritus offerat Deo : id est, subtrahat corpori suo 
de cibo, de potu, de somno, de loquacitate, de 
scurrilitate ; et cum spiritalis desiderii gaudio 
sanctum Pascha exspectet. Hoc ipsum tamen, 
quod unusquisque offert, Abbati suo suggerat, et 
cum ejus fiat oratione et voluntate : quia quod sine 
permissione Patris spiritalis fit, praesumptioni 
deputabitur et vanae gloriae, non mercedi. Ergo 
cum voluntate Abbatis omnia agenda sunt. 




DigiTizecTEy Google 





QJufc of 1 $ene&tcf 



135 



CHAPTER XL1X. 

Op thb Observance of Lbnt. 

LTHOUGH the life of a monk 31 Mar* 
ought at all times to have about 30 Nov. 
it a Lenten character, yet since few 
have strength enough for this, we ex- 
hort all, at least during the days of Lent, to keep 
themselves in all purity of life, and to wash away, 
during that holy season, the negligences of other 
times. This we shall worthily do, if we refrain 
from all sin, and give ourselves to prayer with tears, 
to holy reading, compunction of heart and abstin- 
ence. In these days, then, let us add something to 
our wonted service ; as private prayers, and abstin- 
ence from food and drink, so that every one of his 
own will may offer to God, with joy of the Holy Spirit, 
something beyond the measure appointed him : 
withholding from his body somewhat of his food, 
drink, and sleep, refraining from talking and mirth, 
and awaiting Holy Easter with the joy of spiritual 
longing. Let each one, however, make known to 
his Abbot what he offereth, and let it be done with 
his blessing and permission : because what is done 
without leave of the spiritual father shall be im- 
puted to presumption and vain-glory, and merit no 
reward. Everything, therefore, is to be done with 
the approval of the Abbot. 




Digitized by Google 



(gufe of J5f. (Jjjenebtcf 



137 



CHAPTER L. 

Of the Brethren who are working at a distance 
from the Oratory, or are on a journey. 

ET the brethren who are at work i Apr. 

.. i Aug. 

at a great distance, or on a iDec. 




journey, and cannot come to the 
Oratory at the proper time (the Abbot 
judging such to be the case) perform the Work of 
God there where they are labouring, in godly fear, 
and on bended knees. In like manner, let not 
those who are sent on a journey allow the appointed 
Hours to pass by ; but, as far as they can, observe 
them by themselves, and not neglect to fulfil their 
obligation of divine service. 



CHAPTER LI. 

Of the Brethren who go not vbry far off. 



ET not the brother who is sent out 2 Apr. 

2 Aug. 

on any business, and hopeth to 2 Dec. 



return that same day to the Monastery, 
presume to eat while abroad, even 
although pressed by any one to do so, unless per- 
chance he have been bidden by his Abbot. If he do 
otherwise, let him be excommunicated. 



i Google 




138 



(gegufft J$. $enebtcfi 



CAPUT LI I. 

Db Oratorio Monasterii. 




RATORIUM hoc sit, quod dicitur : 3 Apr. 
nec ibi quicquam aliud geratur, \Dtc. 
aut condatur.* Expleto Opere Dei 
omnes cum summo silentio exeant, et 
habeatur reverentia Deo, ut frater, qui forte sibi 
peculiariter vult orare, non impediatur alterius im- 
probitate. Sed si alter vult sibi forte secretius 
orare, simpliciter intret et oret ; non in clamosa 
voce, sed in lacrymis, et intentione cordis. Ergo 
qui simile opus non facit, non permittatur, expleto 
Opere Dei, remorari in Oratorio, sicut dictum est, 
ne alius impedimentum patiatur. 



CAPUT LUI. 

De Hospitibus suscipibndis. 

|MNES supervenientes hospites 4 Apr. 
tamquam Christus suscipiantur, Jr>ei* 
quia ipse dicturus est : Hospes fui , et 
suscepistis me. [Matth. xxv. 35.] Et 
omnibus congruus honor exhibeatur, maxime domes- 
* Note S . — Nec ibi quicquam aliud geratur aut condatur . 




Digitized by Google 




(gufe of gt. $enefctcf 



139 



CHAPTER LI I. 




Of the Oratory of the Monastery. 

ET the Oratory be what it is called, 3 Apr. 
a place of prayer : and let 3 

nothing else be done, or kept there.* 
When the Work of God is ended, let 
all go out with the utmost silence, paying due 
reverence to God, so that a brother, who perchance 
wishes to pray by himself, may not be hindered by 
another's misconduct. If any one desire to pray in 
private, let him go in quietly and pray, not with a 
loud voice, but with tears and fervour of heart. 
And let it not be permitted, as we have said, to 
remain in the Oratory when the Work of God is 
finished, except it be for a like purpose, lest 
hindrance be caused to others. 



CHAPTER LI 1 1. 
Of receiving Guests. 



ET all guests that come be re- 4 Apr. 
ceived like Christ. Himself, for Ji>ec. 
He will say : 44 1 was a stranger and ye 
took Me in.” And let fitting honour 
be shewn to all, especially to such as are of the 




Digitized by Google 



140 



(gegufft J&. ®ene$teft 



ticis fidei, et peregrinis. Ut ergo nuntiatus fuerit 
hospes, occurratur ei a Priore vel a fratribus, cum 
omni officio charitatis : et primitus orent pariter, et 
sic sibi socientur in pace. Quod pacis osculum non 
prius offeratur, nisi oratione praemissa, propter illu- 
siones diabolicas. In ipsa autem salutatione omnis 
exhibeatur humilitas. Omnibus venientibus sive 
discedentibus hospitibus, inclinato capite, vel pro- 
strato omni corpore in terra, Christus in eis adore- 
tur, qui et suscipitur. 

Suscepti autem hospites ducantur ad orationem, 
et postea sedeat cum eis Prior, aut cui j usserit ipse. 
Legatur coram hospite lex divina, ut aedificetur, et 
post haec omnis ei exhibeatur humanitas. Jejunium 
a Priore frangatur propter hospitem; nisi forte 
praecipuus sit dies jejunii, qui non possit violari. 
Fratres autem consuetudines jejuniorum prose- 
quantur. Aquam in manibus Abbas hospitibus det ; 
pedes hospitibus omnibus tam Abbas, quam cuncta 
congregatio lavet ; quibus lotis, hunc versum dicant : 
Suscepimus , Deus, misericordiam tuam , in medio 
templi tui. [Ps. xlvii. 10.] Pauperum et peregri- 
norum maxime susceptionum cura sollicite exhi- 
beatur; quia in ipsis magis Christus suscipitur. 
Nam divitum terror ipse sibi exigit honorem. 



Digitized by Google 





QJttfe of Jfr. $enefctcf 



141 



household of the faith, and to strangers. When, 
therefore, a guest is announced, let him be met by 
the Superior or the brethren, with all due charity. 
Let them first pray together, and thus associate 
with one another in peace ; but the kiss of peace 
must not be offered until after prayer, on account 
of the delusions of the devil. In this salutation let 
all humility be shewn. At the arrival or departure 
of all guests, let Christ —who indeed is received in 
their persons — be adored in them, by bowing the 
head or even prostrating on the ground. 

When the guests have been received, let them be 
led to prayer, and then let the Superior, or any one 
he may appoint, sit with them. The law of God is 
to be read before the guest for his edification ; and 
afterwards let all kindness be shewn him. The 
Superior may break his fast for sake of the guest, 
unless it happen to be a principal fast-day, which 
may not be broken. The brethren, however, shall 
observe their accustomed fasting. Let the Abbot 
pour water on the hands of the guests ; and himself, 
as well as the whole community, wash their feet ; 
after which let them say this verse : “ We have 
received Thy mercy, O God, in the midst of Thy 
Temple." Let special care be taken in the recep- 
tion of the poor and of strangers, because in them 
Christ is more truly welcomed. For the very fear 
men have of the rich procures them honour. 



Digitized by Google 





142 



(gegufft (genebtcf t 



Coquina Abbatis et hospitum per se sit, 5 Apr. 

. . . . 5 Aug. 

ut incertis horis supervenientes hospites, 50«. 
qui nunquam desunt Monasterio, non inquietent 
fratres. In quam coquinam ad annum ingredian- 
tur duo fratres, qui ipsum officium bene impleant. 
Quibus, ut indigent, solatia administrentur, ut 
absque murmuratione serviant; et iterum quando 
occupationem minorem habent, exeant, ubi eis im- 
peratur, in opera. Et non solum in ipsis, sed et in 
omnibus officiis Monasterii ista sit consideratio : ut 
quando indigent, solatia accommodentur eis; et 
iterum quando vacant, obediant imperatis. Item 
et cellam hospitum habeat assignatam frater, cujus 
animam timor Dei possidet: ubi sint lecti strati 
sufficienter, et domus Dei a sapientibus sapienter 
administretur. Hospitibus autem, cui non prae- 
cipitur, nullatenus societur neque colloquatur : sed 
si obviaverit aut viderit, salutatis humiliter, ut dixi- 
mus, et petita benedictione,* pertranseat dicens sibi 
non licere colloqui cum hospite. 



* Note T . — Petita benedictione. 



Digitized by Google 





QJttfe of 1 5f. $enefctcf 



143 



Let the kitchen for the Abbot and guests 5 Apr. 
be apart by itself ; so that strangers, who 5 
are never wanting in a monastery, may not disturb 
the brethren by coming at unlooked-for hours. Let 
two brothers, who are well able to fulfil the duty, 
be placed in this kitchen for a year ; and let help 
be afforded them as they require it, so that they 
may serve without murmuring. When they have 
not much to occupy them there, let them go forth 
to other work, wherever they may be bidden. And 
not only with regard to them, but in all the offices 
of the Monastery, let there be such consideration 
shewn, that when there is need of help it may be 
given them ; and that when they are without work, 
they do whatever they are commanded. Let the 
care of the guest-house, also, be entrusted to a 
brother whose soul is possessed with the fear of God : 
let there be sufficient beds prepared there and let 
the house of God be wisely governed by prudent 
men. Let no one, except he be bidden, on any 
account associate or converse with the guests. But 
if he chance to meet or to see them, after humbly 
saluting them, as we have said, and asking their 
blessing,* let him pass on, saying that he is not per- 
mitted to talk with a guest. 



Digitized by Google 





144 



(gegufa §b. $enebieti 



CAPUT LIV. 

Si debbt Monachus litteras, vel eulogias 
suscipere. 



ULLATENUS liceat monacho 6 Apr. 

•« • 6 Aug. 

nec a parentibus suis, nec a 6 Dec. 
quoquam hominum, nec sibi invicem 
litteras, eulogias/ vel quaelibet munus- 
cula accipere aut dare, sine praecepto Abbatis, 
Quod si etiam a parentibus suis ei quicquam 
directum fuerit, non praesumat suscipere illud, nisi 
prius indicatum fuerit Abbati. Quod si j usserit 
suscipi, in Abbatis sit potestate, cui illud jubeat 
dari : et non contristetur frater, cui forte directum 



fuerat, ut non detur occasio diabolo. Qui autem 
aliter praesumpserit, disciplinae regulari subjaceat. 



CAPUT LV. 

De Vestiariis, et Calciariis Fratrum. 

ESTIMENTA fratribus secundum 7 Apr. 
locorum qualitatem ubi habitant, 7 Di,' 
vel aerum temperiem dentur, quia in 
frigidis regionibus amplius indigetur, in 
calidis vero minus. Haec ergo consideratio penes 

* Note U. — Eulogias . 




Digitized by LjOOQle 






QJufe of JJf. igenefctcf 



145 



CHAPTER L 1 V. 

Whether a Monk ought to receive letters, or 




Y no means let a monk be allowed 6 Apr. 

. 6 Aug. 

to receive, either from his parents 6 Dec. 



or any one else, or from his brethren, 
letters, tokens,* or any gifts whatsoever, 
or to give them to others, without permission of the 
Abbot. And if anything be sent to him, even by 
his parents, let him not presume to receive it until 
it hath been made known to the Abbot. But even 
if the Abbot order it to be received, it shall be in his 
power to bid it be given to whom he pleaseth ; and 
let not the brother to whom it may have been sent 
be grieved, lest occasion .be given to the devil. 
Should any one, however, presume to act otherwise, 
let him be subjected to the discipline of the Rule. 



CHAPTER LV. 



Of the Clothes and Shoes of the Brethren. 




BT clothing be given to the 7 Apr. 
brethren suitable to the nature 70“?. 



and the climate of the place where they 
live : for in cold countries more is 
required, in warm countries less. This must there- 



i Google 




146 



(JJegufft JS. (genefctcft 



Abbatem est. Nos tamen mediocribus locis suffi- 
cere credimus monachis per singulos cucullam et 
tunicam : cucullam in hyeme villosam, in restate 
puram aut vetustam ; et scapulare propter opera : 
indumenta pedum, pedules et caligas. De quarum 
rerum omnium colore aut grossitudine non causen- 
tur monachi ; sed quales inveniri possunt in pro- 
vincia, qua degunt, aut quod vilius comparari 
potest. 



Abbas autem de mensura provideat, ut non sint 
curta ipsa vestimenta utentibus eis, sed mensurata. 
Accipientes nova, vetera semper reddant in prae- 
senti, reponenda in vestiario propter pauperes. 
Sufficit enim monacho duas tunicas et duas cucul- 
las habere propter noctes, et propter lavare ipsas 
res. Jam quod supra fuerit, superfluum amputari 
debet. Et pedules, et quodcumque est vetus, red- 
dant, dum accipiunt novum. Femoralia hi qui in 
via diriguntur, de vestiario accipiant : qui rever- 
tentes lota ibi restituant. Et cucullae et tunicae sint 
aliquanto a solito quas habent, modice meliores; 
quas exeuntes in via accipiant de vestiario, et rever- 
tentes restituant. 



Stramenta autem lectorum sufficiant, 8 Apr. 
matta, sagum, et lena et capitale. Quae 8 Del' 



Digitized by Google 





OJttfe of gt. $enefctcf 



147 



fore be considered by the Abbot. We think, how- 
ever, that in temperate climates a cowl and a tunic 
should suffice for each monk : the cowl to be of 
thick stuff in winter, but in summer something 
worn or thin : likewise a scapular for work, and 
shoes and stockings to cover their feet. And let 
not the monks complain of the colour or coarseness 
of these things, but let them be such as can be got 
in the country where they live, or can be bought 
most cheaply. 

Let the Abbot be careful about the size of the 
garments, that they be not too short for those who 
wear them, but of the proper length. When they 
receive new clothes let them always give up the old 
ones at once, to be put by in the wardrobe for the 
poor. For it is sufficient for a monk to have two 
tunics and two cowls for wearing at night, and also for 
washing : whatever is over and above this is super- 
fluous, and ought to be cut off. In the same way, 
let them give up their shoes, and whatever else is 
worn out, when they receive new ones. Let those 
who are sent on a journey receive drawers from the 
wardrobe, and on their return restore them washed. 
Their cowls anc} tunics also, which are to be a little 
better than those they ordinarily wear, let them 
receive from the wardrobe when setting out on their 
journey, and give them back on their return. 

For their bedding let a straw mattress, 3Apr. 

8 Aug. 

blanket, coverlet, and pillow suffice. These 8 Dec. 



Digitized by Google 




148 



(JJegufa ®eneiicft 



tamen lecta frequenter ab Abbate scrutanda sunt, 
propter opus peculiare, ne inveniatur. Bt si cui 
inventum fuerit, quod ab Abbate non accepit, 
gravissimae disciplinae subjaceat. Et ut hoc vitium 
peculiare radicitus amputetur, dentur ab Abbate 
omnia quae sunt necessaria : id est, cuculla, tunica, 
pedules, caligae, bracile, cultellus, graphium, acus, 
mappula, tabula, ut omnis auferatur necessitatis 
excusatio. A quo tamen Abbate semper consi- 
deretur illa sententia Actuum Apostolorum, quia 
dabatur singulis , prout cuique opus erat . [Act. 
iv. 35.] Ita ergo et Abbas consideret infirmitatem 
indigentium, non malam voluntatem invidentium. 
In omnibus tamen judiciis suis Dei retributionem 
cogitet. 



CAPUT LVI. 

De Mensa Abbatis. 



ENS A Abbatis cum hospitibus et 9 Apr. 

.... „ . 9 Aug. 

peregrinis sit semper. Quoties 9 Dec. 
tamen minus sunt hospites, quos vult 
de fratribus vocare, in ipsius sit po- 
testate. Seniorum tamen unum, aut duos semper 
cum fratribus dimittendos procuret, propter dis- 
ciplinam. 




Digitized by Google 




QJufe of Jft (genetfcf 



149 



beds must be frequently inspected by the Abbot, to 
see' if any private property be discovered therein. 
And if any one should be found to have anything 
which he hath not received from the Abbot, let him 
be subjected to the most severe discipline. In 
order that this vice of private ownership may be 
rooted out entirely, let the Abbot supply them with 
all necessaries : that is, a cowl, tunic, shoes, 
stockings, girdle, knife, pen, needle, handkerchief, 
and tablets ; so that all plea of wanting anything 
may be taken away. Yet let the Abbot always be 
mindful of those words of the Acts of the Apostles : 
u Distribution was made to every one, according 
as he had need.” Let him, therefore, consider the 
infirmities of such as are in want, and not the 
ill-will of the envious. Nevertheless, in all his 
judgments, let him think of the retribution of God. 



CHAPTER LVI. 

Op the Abbot's Table. 



9 Apr. 
. 9 Aug. 

and 9 Dec- 



1ET the table of the Abbot be 
always with the guests 
strangers. But as often as there are 
few guests, it shall be in his power to 
invite any of the brethren. Let him take care, 
however, always to leave one or two seniors with 
the brethren for the sake of discipline. 




Digitized by Google 



150 



QJegufa JJ. (genettcft 



CAPUT LVII. 

De Artipicibus Monasterii. 

RTIFICES, si sunt in Monasterio, io Apr. 

. .... ... ioAug. 

cum omni humilitate faciant xoDec. 
ipsas artes, si permiserit Abbas. Quod 
si aliquis ex eis extollitur pro scientia 
artis suae, eo quod videatur aliquid conferre Mona~ 
sterio, hic talis erigatur ab ipsa arte et denuo per eam 
non transeat, nisi forte humiliato ei iterum Abbas 
jubeat. Si quid vero ex operibus artificum venum- 
dandum est, videant ipsi, per quorum manus transi- 
genda sunt, ne aliquam fraudem facere praesumant 
inferre. Memorentur semper Ananiae et Saphirae : 
ne forte mortem quam illi in corpore pertulerunt, 
hanc isti, vel omnes qui aliquam fraudem de rebus 
Monasterii fecerint, in anima patiantur. In ipsis 
autem pretiis non surripiat avaritiae malum, sed 
semper aliquantulum vilius detur, quam ab aliis 
8ecularibus dari potest, ut in omnibus glorificetur 
Deus. 




Digitized by Google 




QJufe of J5f. ®ene$tef 



151 



CHAPTER LV11. 

Of thb Artificers of the Monastery. 

HOULD there be artificers in the io Apr, 

io Aug. 

Monastery, let them work at io Dec. 
their crafts in all humility, if the Abbot 
give permission. But if any of them 
be puffed up by reason of his knowledge of his 
craft, in that he seemeth to confer some benefit on 
the Monastery, let such a one be taken from it, and 
not exercise it again, unless, perchance, when he 
hath humbled himself, the Abbot bid him work at 
it anew. And if any of the work of the artificers is 
to be sold, let those by whom the business is done 
see that they defraud not the Monastery. Let 
them ever be mindful of Ananias and Saphira, lest 
perchance, they, and all who deal fraudulently with 
the goods of the Monastery, should suffer in their 
souls the death which these incurred in the body. 
But with regard to the prices of such things, let 
not the vice of avarice creep in, but let them always 
be sold a little cheaper than by men in the world, 
that God may be glorified in all things. 



y Google 





152 



Qftegufft £. (genebtcft 



CAPUT LV1I1. 

Db Disciplina suscipiendorum Fratrum. 




VITER veniens quis ad conver- zi Apr. 
8ionem, non ei facilis tribuatur ” Dec.' 
ingressus : sed sicut ait Apostolus : 
Probate spiritus , si ex Deo sunt. [1 
Joann, iv. 1.] Ergo si veniens perseveraverit pulsans, 
et illatas sibi injurias, et difficultatem ingressus, 
post quatuor aut quinque dies visus fuerit patienter 
portare, et persistere petitioni suae, annuatur ei 
ingressus, et sit in cella hospitum paucis diebus. 
Postea sit in cella Novitiorum, ubi meditetur, et 
manducet, et dormiat. Et senior ei talis deputetur, 
qui aptus sit ad lucrandas animas, qui super eum 
omnino curiose intendat et sollicitus sit, si revera 
Deum quaerit, et sollicitus est ad Opus Dei, ad 
obedientiam, ad opprobria. Praedicentur ei omnia 
dura et aspera, per quae itur ad Deum. Et si 
promiserit de stabilitatis suae perseverantia, post 
duorum mensium circulum legatur ei haec Regula 
per ordinem, et dicatur ei : “ Ecce lex, sub qua 
militare vis ; si potes, observare, ingredere : si vero 



y Google 




QJufe of JJt. $entbtcf 



153 



CHAPTER LVII1. 

Op the Discipline of receiving Brethren into 
Religion. 

him that newly cometh to change ii Apr. 
his life, let not an easy entrance n Dec.’ 
be granted, but, as the Apostle saith, 
“Try the spirits if they be of God/* 
If, therefore, he that cometh persevere in knocking, 
and after four or five days seem patiently to endure 
the wrongs done to him and the difficulty made 
about his coming in, and to persist in his petition, 
let entrance be granted him, and let him be in the 
guest-house for a few days. Afterwards let him go 
into the Novitiate, where he is to meditate and 
study, to take his meals and to sleep. Let a 
senior, one who is skilled in gaining souls, be 
appointed over him to watch him with the utmost 
care, and to see whether he is truly seeking God, 
and is fervent in the Work of God, in obedience and 
in humiliations. Let all the hard and rugged paths 
by which we walk towards God be set before him. 
And if he promise steadfastly to persevere, after the 
lapse of two months let this Rule be read through 
to him, with these words : “ Behold the law, under 
which thou desirest to fight. If thou canst observe 




Digitized by Google 





154 



(gegttfa J$. (genedtcft 



non potes, liber discede/* Si adhuc steterit, tunc 
ducatur in supradictam cellam Novitiorum, et 
iterum probetur in omni patientia. Et post sex 
mensium circulum relegatur ei Regula, ut sciat ad 
quod ingreditur. Et si adhuc stat, post quatuor 
menses iterum relegatur ei eadem Regula. Et si, 
habita secum deliberatione, promiserit se omnia 
custodire, et cuncta sibi imperata servare, tunc 
suscipiatur in congregatione, sciens se jam lege 
Regulae constitutum, quod ei ex illa die non liceat 
egredi de monasterio, nec collum excutere de sub 
jugo Regulae, quam sub tam morosa deliberatione 
licuit aut recusare aut suscipere. 



Suscipiendus autem in Oratorio coram ia Apr. 

.... xa Aug. 

omnibus promittat de stabilitate sua, et 12 Dec. 
CONVERSIONE MORUM SUORUM, et OBEDIBNTIA, COram 

Deo et Sanctis ejus, ut si aliquando aliter fecerit, 
ab eo se damnandum sciat quem irridet De 
qua promissione sua faciat petitionem ad nomen 
Sanctorum quorum Reliquiae ibi sunt, et Abbatis 
praesentis. Quam petitionem manu sua scribat: 
aut certe, si non scit litteras, alter ab eo rogatus 
scribat ; et ille Novitius signum faciat, et manu sua 



Digitized by Google 





(gufe of J5f. $ettefctcf 



155 



it, enter in ; if thou canst not, freely depart.” If 
he still stand firm, let him be taken back to the 
aforesaid cell of the Novices, and again tried with 
all patience. And, after a space of six months, let 
the Rule be again read to him, that he may know 
unto what he cometh. Should he still persevere, 
after four months let the same Rule be read to him 
once more. And if, having well considered within 
himself, he promise to keep it in all things, and to 
observe everything that is commanded him, then 
let him be received into the community, knowing 
that he is now bound by the law of the Rule, so 
that from that day forward he cannot depart from 
the Monastery, nor shake from off his neck the 
yoke of the Rule, which after such prolonged deli- 
beration he was free either to refuse or to accept. 

Let him who is to be received make before ia Apr. 
all, in the Oratory, a promise of stability, »iSc.‘ 
conversion of life, and obedience, in the presence 
of God and of His saints, so that, if he should ever 
act otherwise, he may know that he will be con- 
demned by Him Whom he mocketh. Let him draw 
up this promise in writing, in the name of the saints 
whose relics are in the altar, and of the Abbot 
there present. And let him write it with his own 
hand ; or at least, if he knoweth not how, let 
another write it at his request, and let the Novice 
put his mark to it, and place it with his own hand 



Digitized by Google 




156 



(gegvfa (genefcteft 



earn super altare ponat. Quam dum posuerit, in- 
cipiat ipse Noritius mox hunc versum : Suscipe 
me, Domine, secundum eloquium tuum, et vivant : 
et non confundas me ab exspectatione mea. [Ps. 
cxviii. 1 16.] Quem versum omnis congregatio tertio 
respondeat, adjungentes : Gloria Patri. Tunc ille 
frater Novitius prosternatur omnium pedibus, ut 
orent pro eo, et jam ex illa die in congregatione 
reputetur. Res si quas habet, aut eroget prius 
pauperibus, aut facta solemniter donatione, conferat 
Monasterio, nihil sibi reservans ex omnibus : quippe 
qui ex illo die nec proprii corporis potestatem se 
habiturum sciat. Mox ergo in Oratorio exuatur 
rebus propriis quibus vestitus est, et induatur rebus 
Monasterii. Illa autem vestimenta, quibus exutus 
est, reponantur in vestiario conservanda, ut si ali- 
quando, suadente diabolo, consenserit ut egrediatur 
de Monasterio (quod absit), tunc exutus rebus 
Monasterii, projiciatur. Illam tamen petitionem 
ejus, quam desuper altare Abbas tulit, non recipiat, 
sed in Monasterio reservetur. 



Digitized by Google 





(gufe of ®cnebtcf 



157 



upon the altar. When he hath done this, let the 
Novice himself immediately begin this verse : 
“ Uphold me, O Lord, according to Thy Word, 
and I shall live : and let me not be confounded in 
my expectation.” And this verse let the whole 
community thrice repeat, adding thereto Gloria 
Patri . Then let the newly-received brother cast 
himself at the feet of all, that they may pray for him, 
and from that day let him be counted as one of the 
community. Whatever property he hath let him 
first bestow upon the poor, or by a solemn deed of 
gift make over to the Monastery, keeping nothing of 
it all for himself, as knowing that from that day 
forward he will have no power even over his own 
body. Forthwith, therefore, in the Oratory, let him 
be stripped of his own garments, wherewith he is 
clad, and be clothed in those of the Monastery. And 
let the garments that are taken from him be laid by 
and kept in the wardrobe ; so that if ever, by the 
persuasion of the devil, he consent (which God for- 
bid) to leave the Monastery, he may be stripped of 
the monastic habit and cast forth. But the form 
of his profession, which the Abbot took from the 
altar, shall not be given back to him, but be kept 
in the Monastery. 



Digitized by Google 





158 



(gegufft Opened icti 



CAPUT LIX. 

Db Filiis Nobilium vbl Pauperum, qui 

OFFBRUNTUR. 

I quis forte de nobilibus offert i 3 A P r. 
filium suum Deo in Monasterio, 13 
si ipse puer minori state est, parentes 
ejus faciant petitionem quam supra 
diximus. Et cum oblatione* ipsam petitionem et 
manum pueri involvant in palla altaris, et sic eum 
offerant. De rebus autem suis aut in praesenti 
petitione promittant sub jurejurando, quia nun- 
quam per se, nunquam per suffectam personam, 
nec quolibet modo ei aliquando aliquid dent, aut 
tribuant occasionem habendi. Vel certe, si hoc 
facere noluerint et aliquid offerre voluerint in 
eleemosynam Monasterio pro mercede sua, faciant 
ex rebus, quas dare volunt Monasterio, donationem, 
reservato sibi (si ita voluerint) usufructuario. Atque 
ita omnia obstruantur, ut nulla suspicio remaneat 
puero, per quam deceptus perire possit (quod absit), 
quod experimento didicimus. Similiter autem et 
pauperiores faciant. Qui vero ex toto nihil habent, 
simpliciter petitionem faciant, et cum oblatione 
offerant filium suum coram testibus. 

* Note U . — Cum oblatione . 




Digitized by Google 





(gufe of (gene&tcf 



159 



CHAPTER LIX. 

Of the Sons of Nobles or of Poor Men that 
are offered. 

■' “ F any nobleman shall perchance 13 Apr. 

n Aug. 

offer his son to God in the 13 *><*. 
Monastery, let the parents, should the 
boy be still in infancy, make for him 
the written promise as aforesaid ; and together with 
the oblation* let them wrap that promise and the 
hand of the child in the altar-cloth, and so offer him 
up. With respect to his property, they must in the 
same document promise under oath that they will 
never either themselves, or through any one else, or 
in any way whatever, give him anything, or the 
means of having anything. Or else, if they are 
unwilling to do this, and desire to offer something 
as an alms to the Monastery, for their own advan- 
tage, let them make a donation of whatever they 
please to the Monastery, reserving to themselves, if 
they will, the income thereof during their life. 
Thus let all possiblity of expectation be excluded 
whereby the child might be deceived and so perish 
(which God forbid), as we have learnt by experience 
may happen. Let those who are poorer do in like 
manner. But those who have nothing whatever 
may simply make the promise in writing, and with 
the oblation, offer their son before witnesses. 




Digitized by v^ooQle 



160 



(gegufa JJ. Q$enedtcft 



CAPUT LX. 

De Sacerdotibus, qui forte voluerint in 
Monastbrio habitare. 

I quis de ordine Sacerdotum in z 4 A P r. 

__ . . . . 14 Aug. 

Monasterio se suscipi rogavent, i 4 Dec. 
non quidem ei citius assentiatur : tamen 
si omnino perstiterit in hac petitione, 
sciat se omnem Regulae disciplinam servaturum, 
nec aliquid ei relaxabitur, ut sit, sicut scriptum est : 
Amice , ad quid venisti ? [Matth. xxvi. 50.] Con- 
cedatur ei tamen post Abbatem stare, et benedicere, 
aut Missam tenere; si tamen jusserit ei Abbas. 
Sin alias, nullatenus aliqua praesumat, sciens se 
disciplinae regulari subditum, et magis humilitatis 
exempla omnibus det. Si forte ordinationis aut 
alicujus rei causa fuerit in Monasterio, illum locum 
attendat, quando ingressus est in Monasterium, non 
illum, qui ei pro reverentia Sacerdotii concessus est. 
Clericorum autem si quis eodem desiderio Monas- 
terio sociari voluerit, loco mediocri collocentur, et 
ipsi tamen, si promittit de observatione Regulae, 
vel propria stabilitate. 




Digitized by Google 





QJufe of J5f. (genefctcf 



161 



CHAPTER LX. 

Op Priests who may wish to dwell in the 
Monastery. 

P any one in priestly orders ask to 14 Apr. 
be received into the Monastery, m Dec’ 
let not consent be too quickly granted 
him ; but if he persist in his request, 
let him know that he will have to observe all the 
discipline of the Rule, and that nothing will be 
relaxed in his favour, according as it is written : 
“Friend, wherefore art thou come ?” Let him, 
nevertheless, be allowed to stand next the Abbot, to 
give the blessing, and to say Mass, if the Abbot bid 
him do so. Otherwise, let him presume to do 
nothing, knowing that he is subject to the discipline 
of the Rule ; but rather let him give an example of 
humility to all. And if there be a question of any 
appointment, or other business in the Monastery, 
let him expect the position due to him according 
to the time of his entrance, and not that which was 
yielded to him out of reverence for the priesthood. 
If any clerics should desire in the same way to be 
admitted into the Monastery, let them be placed 
in a middle rank : but in their case also, only on 
condition that they promise observance of the Rule, 
and stability therein. 




Digitized by Google 





162 



(JJegufft £. (genefcteft 



CAPUT LXI. 

Db Monachis Peregrinis, qualitbr 

SUSCIPIANTUR. 

quis monachus peregrinus de i 5 A P r. 

. . . • •• xsAug. 

longinquis provinciis superven- xs Dec. 
erit, si pro hospite voluerit habitare in 
Monasterio, et contentus fuerit con- 
suetudine loci quam invenerit, et non forte super- 
fluitate sua perturbat Monasterium, sed simpliciter 
contentus est quod invenerit, suscipiatur quanto 
tempore cupit. Si qua sane rationabiliter et cum 
humilitate charitatis reprehendit aut ostendit, 
tractet Abbas prudenter, ne forte pro hoc ipso 
eum Dominus direxerit. Si vero postea voluerit 
stabilitatem suam firmare, non renuatur talis volun- 
tas, et maxime, quia tempore hospitalitatis potuit 
ejus vita dignosci. 

Quod si superfluus, aut vitiosus inventus i6Apr. 
fuerit tempore hospitalitatis, non solum non 16 Dec. 
debet sociari corpori Monasterii, verum etiam dica- 
tur ei honeste ut discedat, ne ejus miseria etiam 
alii vitientur. Quod si non fuerit talis qui mere- 
atur projici, non solum si petierit suscipiatur con- 
gregationi sociandus, verum etiam suadeatur ut 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




QJufe of |$t. $3enebtcf 



163 



CHAPTER LX1. 



Of Stranger Monks, how they are to be 

RECEIVED. 




any monk who is a stranger 15 Apr. 

_ .. ,15 Aug. 

come from distant parts, and x 5 Dec. 
desire to dwell in the Monastery as a 
guest, and if he be content with the 
customs which he there findeth, and do not trouble 
the Monastery by any superfluous wants, but be 
satisfied with what he findeth, let him be received 
for as long a time as he will. And if reasonably 
and with humility he reprove and point out what 
is amiss, let the Abbot prudently mark his words, 
in case God perchance hath sent him for this 
very end. If afterwards he desire to bind himself 
to remain there, let not his wish be denied him, 
especially since during the time he was a guest his 
manner of life could well be ascertained. 



But if during that time he was found 16 Apr. 

16 Aug. 

burdensome or prone to vice, not only must x6 Dec. 
he not be admitted among the brethren, but he 
must even be courteously bidden to depart, lest 
others should be corrupted by his evil living. If, 
however, he is not such as to deserve to be sent 
away, let him not merely on his own asking be 
received and admitted into the community, but 



Digitized by Google 




164 



(gegufo £. (genefctefi 



stet, ut ejus exemplo alii erudiantur, et quia in 
omni loco uni Domino servitur, uni Regi militatur. 
Quem etiam si talem esse perspexerit Abbas, liceat 
eum in superiore aliquantum constituere loco. Non 
solum autem monachum, sed etiam de suprascriptis 
gradibus sacerdotum vel clericorum, stabilire potest 
Abbas in majori, quam ingreditur loco, si ejus talem 
prospexerit esse vitam. Caveat autem Abbas, ne 
aliquando jam de alio noto Monasterio monachum 
ad habitandum suscipiat, sine consensu Abbatis 
ejus, aut litteris commendatitiis ; quia scriptum 
est : Quod tibi non vis fieri , alteri ne feceris. 
[Matth. vii. 12.] 



CAPUT LXII. 

De Sacerdotibus Monasterii. 



I quis Abbas sibi presbyterum, vel x 7 Apr. 
diaconum ordinare petierit, de 
suis eligat qui dignus sit Sacerdotio 
fungi. Ordinatus autem caveat ela- 
tionem aut superbiam ; nec quicquam praesumat, 
nisi quod ei ab Abbate praecipitur, sciens se multo 
magis disciplinae regulari subditum. Nec occasione 




Digitized by Google 





QJttfe of $enedtef 



165 



even be persuaded to remain, that the others may 
be taught by his example : because in every place 
we serve one God, and fight under one King. And 
if the Abbot perceive him to be a man of this kind, 
he may put him in a somewhat higher place. It 
shall be in the Abbot's power to assign not only to 
a simple monk, but also to any of the aforesaid 
priests or clerics, a higher place than that due to 
them by their entrance into the Monastery, if he 
see that their lives are such as to deserve it. But 
let the Abbot take care never to receive a monk 
from any known monastery, without his own Abbot's 
consent, and letters of recommendation ; as it is 
written : “ What thou wilt not have done to thy- 
self, do not thou to another." 



CHAPTER LXII. 



Of the Priests of the Monastery. 






F any Abbot desire to have a i 7 A P r. 

17 Aug. 

priest or deacon ordained for 17 Dec. 
his Monastery, let him choose from 
among his monks one who is worthy 
to fulfil the priestly office. And let him that is 
ordained beware of arrogance and pride, and pre- 
sume to do nothing that is not commanded him by 
the Abbot, knowing that he is now all the more 
subject to regular discipline. Let him not, by 



Digitized by Google 



166 



(gegufft £. $enebtcft 



Sacerdotii obliviscatur Regulae obedientiam et dis- 
ciplinam, sed magis ac magis in Domino proficiat. 

Locum vero illum semper attendat quo ingressus 
est in Monasterio, praeter officium altaris ; et si 
forte electio congregationis et voluntas Abbatis pro 
vitae merito eum promovere voluerit. Qui tamen 
regulam a decanis, vel praepositis constitutam sibi 
servandam sciat. Quod si aliter praesumpserit, non 
ut sacerdos, sed ut rebellis judicetur ; et saepe ad- 
monitus si non correxerit, etiam Episcopus adhi- 
beatur in testimonium.* Quod si nec sic emenda- 
verit, clarescentibus culpis, projiciatur Monasterio ; 
si tamen talis fuerit ejus contumacia, ut subdi aut 
obedire Regulae nolit. 



CAPUT LX1II. 

Db Ordinb Congregationis. 

RDINES suos in Monasterio ita x8A pr . 

. . . . , *8 Augi 

conservent, ut conversionis tern- xs Dec. 
pus et vitae meritum discernit, vel ut 
Abbas constituerit. Qui Abbas non 
conturbet gregem sibi commissum, nec quasi libera 
* Note X . — Episcopus adhibeatur in testimonium . 




Digitized by Google 





QJttfe of gf. (gettebtcf 



167 



reason of his priesthood, become forgetful of the 
obedience and discipline of the Rule, but advance 
ever more and more in godliness. Let him always 
keep the place due to him according to his entrance 
into the Monastery, except with regard to his office 
at the altar, or unless the choice of the community 
and the will of the Abbot should raise him to a 
higher place for the merit of his life. Nevertheless, 
let him know that he must observe the rules pre- 
scribed by the deans or provosts. Should he pre- 
sume to do otherwise, he shall be judged, not as a 
priest, but as a rebel ; and if after frequent warning 
he do not correct himself, let recourse be had to 
the intervention of the Bishop.* If even then he 
will not amend, and his guilt is clearly shewn, let 
him be cast forth from the Monastery, provided his 
contumacy be such that he will not submit nor 
obey the Rule. 



CHAPTER LXIII. 

Of the Order of the Community. 

ET everyone keep that place in x8Apr. 
the Monastery, which the time *8 Dec.* 
of his entering religion, the merit of 
his life, or the appointment of the 
Abbot shall determine. And let not the Abbot 
disquiet the flock committed to him, nor by an 




Digitized by Google 




168 



(gegufo J§. $ene&tcft 



utens potestate, injuste disponat aliquid: sed cogi- 
tet semper, quia de omnibus judiciis et operibus 
suis redditurus est Deo rationem. Ergo secundum 
ordines quos constituerit, vel quos habuerint ipsi 
fratres, sic accedant ad Pacem, ad Communionem, 
ad Psalmum imponendum, in choro standum. Et 
in omnibus omnino locis aetas non discernat ordines, 
nec praejudicet ; quia Samuel et Daniel pueri pres- 
byteros judicaverunt Ergo exceptis iis, quos (ut 
diximus) altiori consilio Abbas praetulerit, vel de- 
gradaverit certis ex causis, reliqui omnes, ut con- 
vertuntur, ita sint, ut, verbi gratia, qui secunda 
diei hora venerit in Monasterium juniorem se 
noverit esse illo qui prima hora venit diei, cujus- 
libet aetatis aut dignitatis sit. Pueris vero per 

omnia ab omnibus disciplina teneatur. 

% 



Juniores ergo priores suos honorent: i 9 Apr. 
priores juniores suos diligant. In ipsa IIdS'. 
appellatione nominum nulli liceat alium puro no- 
mine appellare ; sed priores juniores suos Fratres 
nominent, juniores autem priores suos Nonnos* 
vocent, quod intelligitur paterna reverentia. Abbas 
autem, quia vices Christi agere videtur, Domnus et 
Abbas vocetur : non sua assumptione, sed honore 
* Note Y. — Nonnos, 



Digitized by Google 





(gttfe of #enefctcf 



169 



undue use of his authority ordain anything un- 
justly ; but let him ever bear in mind that he will 
have to give an account to God of all his judgments 
and all his deeds. Therefore in that order which 
they hold, or which he shall have appointed, let 
the brethren receive the kiss of peace, approach to 
Communion, intone the Psalms, and stand in choir. 
And in no place whatsoever let age decide the 
order, or be prejudicial to it ; for Samuel and 
Daniel, when but children, judged the elders. Ex- 
cepting, therefore, those whom (as we have said) 
the Abbot hath promoted with some special object, 
or for distinct reasons hath degraded, let all the 
rest stand in the order of their coming to religion ; 
so that, for example, he who entered the Monastery 
at the second hour of the day must know thaj he is \ 
lower than he who came at the first hour, whatever * 
may be his age or dignity. The children are to be 
kept under discipline at all times and by every one. 

Let the younger brethren, then, reverence 19 Apr. 

19 Aug. 

their elders, and the elder love the younger. 19 Dec. 
In calling each other by name, let none address 
another by his simple name ; but let the elders call 
the younger brethren Brothers , and the younger 
call their elders Fathers ,* by which is implied the 
reverence due to a father. But let the Abbot, 
since he is considered to represent the person of 
Christ, be called Lord and Abbot, not that he hath 
taken it upon himself, but out of reverence and 



Digitized by Google 





170 



(gegufft J$. (genefctcft 



ct amore Christi. Ipse autem cogitet, et sic se 
exhibeat, ut dignus sit tali honore. Ubicumque 
autem sibi obviant fratres, junior a priore bene- 
dictionem petat. Transeunte majore, minor surgat 
et det ei locum sedendi : nec praesumat junior 
consedere, nisi ei praecipiat senior suus : ut fiat 
quod scriptum est : Honore invicem prcevenientes. 
[Rom. xii. 10.] Pueri parvuli, vel adolescentes, in 
Oratorio vel ad mensam, cum disciplina ordines' 
suos consequantur. Foris autem vel ubi ubi, cus- 
todiam habeant et disciplinam, usque dum ad 
intelligibilem aetatem perveniant. 



CAPUT LXIV. 



Db ordinando Abbate. 



IN Abbatis ordinatione illa semper so Apr. 

" . t 4 . aoAug. 

consideretur ratio, ut hic con- *>Dec 
stituatur, quem sibi omnis concors 
congregatio, secundum timorem Dei, 
sive etiam pars quamvis parva congregationis, 
saniori consilio elegerit. Vitae autem merito et 
sapientiae doctrina eligatur, qui ordinandus est, 
etiam si ultimus fuerit in ordine congregationis. 



Digitized by Google 




®ufe of gt (genebxct 



171 



love for Christ. Let him be mindful of this, and 
shew himself to be worthy of such an honour. 
Wherever the brethren meet one another, let the 
younger ask a blessing from the elder. And when 
the elder passeth by, let the younger rise, and give 
place to him to sit down ; nor let the younger pre- 
sume to sit with him, unless the elder bid him, that 
it may come to pass as it is written : “ In honour 
preferring one another.” Let young children and 
boys take their places in the Oratory, or at table, 
with all due discipline. In other places also, when- 
ever they may be, let them be under proper care 
and discipline, until they come to the age of under- 
standing. 



CHAPTER XL1V. 



L > '\\J 



Op the appointment op the Abbot. 



W I X. 



IN the appointing of an Abbot, let ao Apr. 

30 Aug, 

this principle always be observed, *> Dec. 



that he be made Abbot whom all the 
brethren with one consent in the fear 
of God, or even a small part of the community with 
more wholesome counsel, shall elect. Let him who 
is to be appointed be chosen for the merit of his 
life and the wisdom of his doctrine, even though he 



Digitized by Google 





172 



(Regufa J§. (ffenebteft 



Quod si etiam omnis congregatio vitiis suis (quod 
quidem absit) consentientem personam pari consilio 
elegerit, et vitia ipsa aliquatenus in notitiam Epis- 
copi (ad cujus dioecesim pertinet locus ipse), vel 
Abbatibus aut Christianis vicinis claruerint, prohi- 
beant pravorum praevalere consensum, et domui 
Dei dignum constituant dispensatorem ; scientes 
pro hoc se recepturos mercedem bonam, si illud 
caste et zelo Dei faciant ; sicut e contrario pecca- 
tum, si negligant. 



Ordinatus autem Abbas cogitet semper 2X Apr. 
quale onus suscepit, et cui redditurus est 2i Dec. 
rationem villicationis suae; sciatque sibi oportere 
prodesse magis quam praeesse. Oportet ergo eum 
esse doctum in lege divina, ut sciat unde proferat 
nova et vetera : [Matth. xiii. 52.] castum, sobrium, 
misericordem; et semper superexaltet misericor- 
diam judicio, ut idem ipse consequatur. Oderit 
vitia, diligat fratres. In ipsa autem correctione 
prudenter agat, et ne quid nimis; ne dum nimis 
eradere cupit eruginem, frangatur vas ; suamque 
fragilitatem semper suspectus sit, memineritque 
calamum quassatum non conterendum. [Isai. xlii. 
3.] In quibus non dicimus, ut permittat nutriri 



Digitized by Google 





®ufe of gt (genebtcf 



173 



should be the last in order in the community. But 
if all the brethren with one accord (which God 
forbid) should elect a man willing to acquiesce in 
their evil habits, and these in some way come to 
the knowledge of the Bishop to whose diocese that 
place belongs, or of the Abbots or neighbouring 
Christians, let them not suffer the consent of 
these wicked men to prevail, but appoint a worthy 
steward over the house of God, knowing that for 
this they shall receive a good reward, if they do it 
with a pure intention and for the love of God, as, 
on the other hand, they will sin if they neglect it. 

Let him that hath been appointed Abbot ai Apr. 
always bear in mind what a burden he hath ai Dec.’ 
received, and to Whom he will have to give an 
account of his stewardship ; and let him know that 
it beseemeth him more to profit his brethren than 
to preside over them. He must, therefore, be 
learned in the Law of God, that he may know 
whence to bring forth new things and old : he must 
be chaste, sober, merciful, ever preferring mercy 
to justice, that he himself may obtain mercy. Let 
him hate sin, and love the brethren. And even in 
his corrections, let him act with prudence, and not 
go too far, lest while he seeketh too eagerly to 
scrape off the rust, the vessel be broken. Let him 
keep his own frailty ever before his eyes, and re- 
member that the bruised reed must not be broken. 
And by this we do not mean that he should suffer 



Digitized by Google 




174 



(Segufo £. $enefetcft 



vitia, sed prudenter et cum charitate ea amputet, 
ut viderit cuique expedire, sicut jam diximus ; et 
studeat plus amari, quam timeri. Non sit turbu- 
lentus et anxius, non sit nimius et obstinatus, non 
zelotypus et nimis suspiciosus, quia nunquam re- 
quiescit In ipsis imperiis suis sit providus et con- 
sideratus, sive secundum Deum, sive secundum 
seculum. Opera quae injungit, discernat ac tem- 
peret, eogitans discretionem sancti Jacob, dicentis : 
Si greges meos plus in ambulando fecero laborare , 
morientur cuncti una die . [Genes, xxxiii. 13.] 
Haec ergo aliaque testimonia discretionis matris 
virtutum sumens, sic omnia temperet, ut et sit 
quod fortes cupiant, et infirmi non refugiant Et 
praecipue, ut praesentem Regulam in omnibus 
conservet ; ut, dum bene ministraverit, audiat a 
Domino, quod servus bonus, qui erogavit triticum 
conservis suis in tempore suo : Arnen dico vobis , 
ait, super omnia bona sua constituet eum. [Matth. 
xxiv. 47.] 



Digitized by Google 





QJufe of §t. (genefctcf 



175 



vices to grow up ; but that prudently and with 
charity he should cut them off, in the way he 
shall see best for each, as we have already said; 
and let him study rather to be loved than feared. 
Let him not be violent nor over anxious, not 
exacting nor obstinate, not jealous nor prone to 
suspicion, or else he will never be at rest. In all 
his commands, whether concerning spiritual or 
temporal matters, let him be prudent and con- 
siderate. In the works which he imposeth, let 
him be discreet and moderate, bearing in mind 
the discretion of holy Jacob, when he said : “ If 
I cause my flocks to be overdriven, they will all 
perish in one day/' Taking, then, the testimonies 
borne by these and the like words to discretion, 
the mother of virtues, let him so temper all things, 
that the strong may have something to strive after, 
and the weak nothing at which to take alarm. 
And, especially, let him observe this present Rule 
in all things ; so that, having faithfully fulfilled 
his stewardship, he may hear from the Lord what 
that good servant heard, who gave wheat to his 
fellow-servants in due season : “ Amen, I say unto 
you, over all his goods shall he place him/’ 



Digitized by Google 





176 



(gegufa J5. (genebtefi 



CAPUT LXV. 

Db Praeposito Monasterii. 

AiPIUS quidem contingit, ut per 22 Apr. 
ordinationem Praepositi scandala ll d^c.' 
gravia in Monasteriis oriantur; dum 
sint aliqui maligno spiritu superbiae in- 
flati, qui aestimantes se secundos esse Abbates, 
assumentes sibi tyrannidem, scandala nutriunt, 
dissensiones in congregatione faciunt, et maxime 
in illis locis, ubi ab eodem Sacerdote, vel ab eisdem 
Abbatibus qui Abbatem ordinant, ab ipsis etiam et 
Praepositus ordinatur. Quod quam sit absurdum 
facile advertitur, quia ab ipso initio ordinationis 
materia ei datur superbiendi, dum ei suggeritur a 
cogitationibus suis, exutum eum esse a potestate 
Abbatis sui, quia ab ipsis es et tu ordinatus a 
quibus et Abbas. Hinc suscitantur invidiae, rixae, 
detractiones, dissensiones, aemulationes, exordina- 
tiones ; et dum contraria sibi invicem Abbas Prae- 
positusque sentiunt, et ipsorum necesse est sub 
hac dissensione animas periclitari ; et hi qui sub 
ipsis sunt, dum adulantur partibus, eunt in perdi- 




Digitized by Google 





(gufe of <$enedtcf 



177 



CHAPTBR LXV. 
the Provost of thb Monastery. 

T happeneth very often that by aa Apr. 

32 Aug. 

the appointment of the Provost aa Dec. 
grave scandals arise in Monasteries ; 
since there are some who, puffed up 
by the evil spirit of pride, and deeming themselves 
to be second Abbots, take upon themselves to 
tyrannise over others, and so foster scandals and 
cause dissensions in the community : especially in 
those places where the Provost is appointed by the 
same Bishop, or the same Abbots as appoint the 
Abbot himself. How foolish this custom is may 
easily be seen ; for from his first entering upon 
office an incentive to pride is given to him, the 
thought suggesting itself that he is freed from the 
authority of his Abbot, since he hath been ap- 
pointed by the very same persons. Hence are 
stirred up envy, quarrels, backbiting, dissensions, 
jealousy, and disorders. And while the Abbot and 
Provost are at variance with one another, it must 
needs be that souls are endangered by reason of 
their disagreement ; and those who are their sub- 
jects, while favouring one side or the other, run to 
destruction. The evil of this peril falleth on the 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




178 



(gegufo J§. ®enefctcft 



tionem. Cujus periculi malum illos respicit io 
capite, qui talibus in ordinatione se fecerunt au- 
ctores. 



Ideoque nos praevidemus expedire propter a 3 Apr. 
pacis charitatisque custodiam, in Abbatis »30«! 
pendere arbitrio ordinationem Monasterii sui. Et 
si potest fleri, per Decanos ordinetur (ut antea dis- 
posuimus) omnis utilitas Monasterii, prout Abbas 
disposuerit : ut dum pluribus committitur, unus 
non superbiat. Quod si aut locus expetit, aut 
congregatio petierit rationabiliter cum humilitate, 
et Abbas judicaverit expedire, quemcumque elegerit 
Abbas cum consilio fratrum timentium Deum, ordi- 
net ipse sibi Praepositum. Qui tamen Praepositus 
illa agat cum reverentia quae ab Abbate suo ei in- 
juncta fuerint, nihil contra Abbatis voluntatem aut 
ordinationem faciens : quia quantum praelatus est 
caeteris, tantum eum oportet solicite observare 
praecepta Regulae. Qui Praepositus, si repertus 
fuerit vitiosus, aut elatione deceptus superbiae, aut 
contemptor sanctae Regulae fuerit comprobatus, 
admoneatur verbis usque quater : si non emenda- 
verit, adhibeatur ei correctio disciplinae regularis. 
Quod si neque sic correxerit, tunc dejiciatur de 
ordine Praepositurae, et alius, qui dignus est, in 
loco ejus subrogetur. Quod si et postea in con- 
gregatione quietus et obediens non fuerit, etiam de 



Digitized by Google 





(gufe of JK. $enebicf 



179 



heads of those who by their action have been the 
cause of such disorders. 

We foresee, therefore, that it is expedient a 3 Apr. 
for the preservation of peace and charity, lli&c'. 
that the ordering of the Monastery depend upon 
the will of the Abbot. If possible, let all the 
affairs of the Monastery be attended to (as we 
have already arranged) by Deans, as the Abbot 
shall appoint ; so that, the same office being shared 
by many, no one may become proud. But if the 
needs of the place require it, and the community 
ask for it reasonably and with humility, and the 
Abbot judge it expedient, let him himself appoint 
a Provost, whomsoever he shall choose with the 
counsel of brethren who fear God. Let the Pro- 
vost reverently do whatever is enjoined him by his 
Abbot, and nothing against his will or command ; 
for the more he is raised above the rest, so much 
the more carefully ought he to observe the pre- 
cepts of the Rule. And if the Provost be found 
culpable or deceived by the haughtiness of pride, 
or be proved a contemner of the holy Rule, let him 
be admonished by words until the fourth time, 
and then let the correction of regular discipline be 
applied to him. But if even then he do not amend, 
let him be deposed from the office of Provost, and 
another, who is worthier, be substituted in his 
place. If afterwards he be not quiet and obedient 
in the community, let him be expelled from the 



Digitized by Google 





180 



(gegufa J§. (genettcfi 



Monasterio pellatur. Cogitet tamen Abbas, se d< 
omnibus judiciis Deo reddere rationem, ne forte 
invidiae aut zeli flamma urat animam. 



CAPUT LXVI. 



Db Ostiario Monasterii. 




D portam Monasterii ponatur * 4 Apr. 
senex sapiens, qui sciat acci- ** dSL' 



pere responsum et reddere, et cujui 
maturitas eum non sinat vagari. Qui 
Portarius cellam debet habere juxta portam, ut 
venientes semper praesentem inveniant, a quo re- 
sponsum accipiant. Bt mox ut aliquis pulsaverit 
aut pauper clamaverit, Deo gratias respondeat, aut 
benedicat ; et cum omni mansuetudine timoris Dei 
reddat responsum festinanter, cum fervore chari- 
tatis. Qui Portarius, si indiget solatio, juniorem 
fratrem accipiat. Monasterium autem (si fler 
potest) ita debet constitui, ut omnia necessaria, 
id est, aqua, molendinum, hortus, vel artes diversae 
intra Monasterium exerceantur, ut non sit neces- 
sitas monachis vagandi foras; quia omnino non 



/ Google 




QJufe °f ®enebicf 181 

Monastery. Nevertheless, let the Abbot bear in 
mind that he must give an account to God of all 
his judgments, lest perchance the flame of envy or 
jealousy be kindled in his soul. 



CHAPTER LXVI. 

Op thb Porter op the Monastery. 

the gate of the Monastery let 24 Apr. 
there be placed a wise old man, 2} dSL* 
who knoweth how to give and receive 
an answer, and whose ripeness of years 
suffereth him not to wander about. He ought to 
have his cell near the gate, so that they who come 
may always find some one at hand to give them an 
answer. As soon as any one shall knock, or a poor 
man call to him, let him answer, “ Thanks be to 
God/* or bid God bless him, and then with all 
mildness and the fear of God let him give reply 
without delay, in the fervour of charity. If the 
porter need help, let him have with him one of the 
younger brethren. 

The Monastery, however, ought if possible to be 
so constituted that all things necessary, such as 
water, a mill, and a garden, and the various crafts 
may be contained within it ; so that there may be 
no need for the monks to go abroad, for this is by 
no means expedient for their souls. And we wish 




Digitized by Google 




182 



(Regufa Qpenebtcft 



expedit animabus eorum. Hanc autem Regulam 
saepius volumus in congregatione legi, ne quis 
fratrum se de ignorantia excuset. 



CAPUT LXVII. 

Db FRATRIBUS IN VIAM DIRBCT18. 



I RIGENDI fratres in via, omnium * 5 Apr. 
fratrum, vel Abbatis orationi se *1 eS?.‘ 
commendent : et semper ad orationem 
ultimam Operis Dei cpmmemoratio 
omnium absentium flat. Revertentes autem de via 



fratres, ipso die quo redeunt, per omnes canonicas 
horas, dum expletur Opus Dei, prostrati solo Ora- 
torii ab omnibus petant orationem propter excessus, 
ne cui forte subripuerit in via visus aut auditus 
malae rei aut otiosi sermonis. Nec praesumat quis- 
quam referre alio quaecumque foris Monasterium 
viderit aut audierit, quia plurima destructio est. 
Quod si quis praesumpserit, vindictae regulari sub- 
jaceat. Similiter, et qui praesumpserit claustra 
Monasterii egredi vel quocumque ire, vel quidpiam 
quamvis parvum sine Abbatis jussione facere. 



Digitized by v^ooQle 





QJufe of gt. (gcnebxct 



183 



this rule to be frequently read in the community, 
that none of the brethren may excuse himself on 
the plea of ignorance. 



CHAPTER LXVII. 

Op Brbthrbn who arb sent on a journby. 

ET the brethren who are about to as Apr. 
be sent on a journey commend as Dec. 




themselves to the prayers of all the 
brethren and of the Abbot, and at the 
last prayer of the Work of God let a commemora- 
tion be always made of the absent. Let the breth- 
ren that return from a journey, on the very day 
that they come back, lie prostrate on the floor of 
the Oratory at all the Canonical Hours, while the 
Work of God is being performed, and beg the 
prayers of all on account of their transgressions, 
in case they should perchance upon the way have 
seen or heard anything harmful, or fallen into idle 
talk. And let no one presume to relate to another 
what he may have seen or heard outside the 
Monastery ; for thence arise manifold evils. If 
any one shall so presume, let him be subjected 
to the punishment prescribed by the Rule. And 
he shall undergo a like penalty, who dareth to 
leave the enclosure of the Monastery, or to go 
anywhere, or do anything, however trifling, with- 
out permission of the Abbot. 



y Google 



184 



(gtgufft J$. (genebteft 



CAPUT LXVIII. 

Fratri impossibilia injungantur. 

I cui fratri aliqua forte gravia aut 26 Apr. 
impossibilia injunguntur, susci- 26 Dec* 
piat quidem jubentis imperium cum 
omni mansuetudine et obedientia. 
Quod si omnino virium suarum viderit pondus 
excedere, impossibilitatis suae causas ei, qui sibi 
praeest, patienter et opportune suggerat, non super- 
biendo aut resistendo vel contradicendo. Quod si 
post suggestionem suam in sua sententia Prioris 
imperium perduraverit, sciat junior ita sibi expe- 
dire ; et ex charitate, confidens de adjutorio Dei, 
obediat. 



Si 




CAPUT LXIX. 



UT IN MONA8TBRIO NON PRABSUMAT ALTER 
ALTERUM DBFBNDBRB. 

RECAVENDUM est ne quavis 27 Apr. 
occasione praesumat alter alterum 27 Dea 
defendere monachum in Monasterio, aut 
quasi tueri, etiamsi quavis consanguini- 
tatis propinquitate jungantur. Nec quolibet modo 




Digitized by Google 






QJufe of |Sf. (geneMcf 



185 



CHAPTER LXVIII. 

Ip a Brother be commanded to do 

IMPOSSIBILITIES. 




on any brother there be laid 36 Apr. 

26 Aug . 

commands that are hard and *6 Dec. 
impossible, let him receive the orders 
of him who biddeth him with all mild- 



ness and obedience. But if he seeth the weight of 
the burden altogether to exceed his strength, let 
him seasonably and with patience lay before his 
Superior the reasons of his incapacity to obey, 
without shewing pride, resistance, or contradiction. 
If, however, after this the Superior still persist in 
his command, let the younger know that it is ex- 
pedient for him ; and let him obey for the love of 
God, trusting in His assistance. 



CHAPTER LXIX. 

That no one presume to depend another 
in the Monastery. 



ARE must be taken that on no 37 Apr. 

. « *7 Aug. 

occasion one monk presume to 37®«:. 
defend another in the Monastery, or to 
take his part, even although they be 
connected by some near tie of kinship. Let not 



the monks dare to do this in any way whatsoever ; 



Digitized by v^ooQle 






186 



(gegufft J§. $enefcteft 



id a monachis praesumatur, quia exinde gravissima 
occasio scandalorum oriri potest. Quod si quis 
haec transgressus fuerit, acrius coerceatur. 



CAPUT LXX. 



Ut non prjbsumat quisquam aliqubm passim 

CJ3DBRB. 




ETETUR in Monasterio omnis a8 Apr. 

. . . _ Aug. 

praesumptionis occasio. Con- 28 Dec. 
stituimus ut nulli liceat quemquam 
fratrum suorum excommunicare aut 



caedere, nisi cui potestas ab Abbate data fuerit. 
Peccantes autem coram omnibus arguantur, ut 
caeteri metum habeant. I nfantibus vero, usque ad 
quintum decimum annum aetatis, disciplinae dili- 
gentia ab omnibus et custodia sit ; sed et hoc cum 
omni mensura et ratione. Nam in fortiori aetate 



qui praesumpserit aliquatenus sine praecepto Abba- 
tis, vel in ipsis infantibus sine discretione exarserit, 
disciplinae regulari subjaceat, quia scriptum est : 
Quod tibi non vis fieri , alii ne feceris, [Tob. iv. 16.] 



Digitized by v^ooQle 





(JJufe of ®enebtcf 



187 



because therefrom may arise the most grievous 
occasion of scandals. If any one transgress this 
rule, let him be very severely punished. 



CHAPTER LXX. 

That no one presume to strike another. 

T every occasion of presumption a8 Apr. 
be banished from the Monastery, a! Dec’ 
We ordain, therefore, that no one be 
allowed to excommunicate or strike any 
of his brethren, unless authority to do so shall have 
been given him by the Abbot. Let such as offend 
herein be rebuked in the presence of all, that the 
rest may be struck with fear. With regard to the 
children, however, let them be kept by all under 
diligent and watchful discipline, until their fifteenth 
year : yet this, too, with measure and discretion. 
For if any one presume, without leave of the Abbot, 
to chastise such as are above that age, or shew 
undue severity even to the children, he shall be 
subjected to the discipline of the Rule, because it 
is written : 11 What thou wouldest not have done to 
thyself, do not thou to another.” 




Digitized by v^ooQle 




188 



QJegufa §k. (genebtcft 



CAPUT LXXI. 

Ut OBBD1BNTB8 SINT SIBI INVICBM FrATRBS. 

BEDIBNTIiC bonum non solum 29 Apr. 
Abbati exhibendum est ab omni- 29 Dec. 
bus, sed etiam sibi invicem ita obediant 
fratres, scientes per hanc obedientiae 
viam se ituros ad Deum. Praemisso ergo Abbatis, 
aut Praepositorum, qui ab eo constituuntur, imperio 
(cui non permittimus privata imperia praeponi), de 
caetero omnes juniores prioribus suis omni chari- 
tate et sollicitudine obediant. Quod si quis con- 
tentiosus reperitur, corripiatur. Si quis autem 
frater pro quavis minima causa, ab Abbate vel a 
quocumque Priore suo corripitur quolibet modo, 
vel si leviter senserit animum Prioris cujuscumque 
contra se iratum, vel commotum, quamvis modice, 
mox sine mora tamdiu prostratus in terra ante 
pedes ejus jaceat satisfaciens, usque dum bene- 
dictione sanetur illa commotio. Quod si quis con- 
tempserit facere, aut corporali vindictae subjaceat, 
aut, si contumax fuerit, de Monasterio expellatur. 



y Google 





®ufe of J£f. (gettebtef 



189 



CHAPTER LXXI. 

That thb Brethren be obedient onb to thb 




T only is the excellence of 29 Apr. 

29 Aug. 

obedience to be shewn by all 29 Dec. 
to the Abbot, but the brethren must 
also obey one another, knowing that 
by this path of obedience they shall come unto 
God. The commands, then, of the Abbot or the 
Superiors appointed by him (to which we allow no 
private orders to be preferred) having the first 
place, let all the younger brethren obey their 
elders with all charity and vigilance. And should 
any one be found refractory, let him be corrected. 
But if a brother be rebuked by the Abbot, or any of 
his Superiors, for the slightest cause, or if he per- 
ceive that the mind of any Superior is even slightly 
angered or moved against him* however little, let 
him at once, without delay, cast himself on the 
ground at his feet, and there remain doing penance 
until that feeling be appeased, and he giveth him 
the blessing. If any one should disdain to do this, 
let him either be subjected to corporal chastise- 
ment, or, if he remain obdurate, let him be expelled 
from the Monastery. 



y Google 




190 



(gtgufa J§. (gene&tcft 



CAPUT LXXII. 

Db ZELO BONO, QUBM DBBBNT HABBRB MONACHI. 

ICUT est zelus amaritudinis 3 o Apr. 

_ 30 Aug. 

malus, qui separat a Deo, et 3° Dec. 
ducit ad infernum : ita est zelus bonus, 
qui separat a vitiis, et ducit ad Deum 
et ad vitam aeternam. Hunc ergo zelum ferventis- 
simo amore exerceant monachi, id est, ut honore se 
invicem prceveniant . [Rom. xii. 10.] Infirmitates 
suas sive corporum sive morum patientissime tole- 
rent. Obedientiam sibi certatim impendant. Nul- 
lus quod sibi utile judicat sequatur, sed quod magis 
alio. Charitatem fraternitatis casto impendant 
amore ; Deum timeant ; Abbatem suum sincera et 
humili caritate diligant ; Christo omnino nihil prae- 
ponant, qui nos pariter ad vitam aeternam perducat. 



CAPUT LXXI1I. 



Db hoc quod non omnis justttle observatio in 
hac sit Regula constituta. 

RGULAM autem hanc descripsi- z Mail 

. . 31 Aug. 

mus, ut eam observantes in 3* t>ec. 
Monasteriis aliquatenus vel honestatem 
morum, aut initium conversationis nos 
demonstremus habere. Caeterum, ad perfectionem 




y Google 






®ufe of £f. Q§eml>ici 



191 



CHAPTBR LXXII. 

Op the good zeal which Monks ought to havb. 

S there is an evil zeal of bitter- 3° Apr. 

, . , , 30 Aug. 

ness, which separateth from 30 Dec. 
God, and leads to hell, so there is a 
good zeal, which keepeth us from vice, 
and leadeth to God and to life everlasting. Let 
monks, therefore, exert this zeal with most fervent 
love ; that is, “ in honour preferring one another/' 
Let them most patiently endure one another's in- 
firmities, whether of body or of mind. Let them 
vie with one another in obedience. Let no one 
follow what he thinketh good for himself, but rather 
what seemeth good for another. Let them cherish 
fraternal charity with chaste love, fear God, love 
their Abbot with sincere and humble affection, and 
prefer nothing whatever to Christ. And may He 
bring us all alike to life everlasting. 




CHAPTER LXXII I. 



That thb whole observance of perfection is 

NOT SET DOWN IN THIS RULB. 




beginning 



E have written this Rule, in order 1 May 

. . 3* Aug* 

that, by observing it in Monas- 3* Dec. 
teries, we may shew ourselves to have 
some degree of goodness of life, and a 
of holiness. But for him who would 



Digitized by Google 



192 



(Segufo J§. Qgenebtcft 



conversationis qui festinant, sunt doctrinae sancto- 
rum Patrum, quarum observatio perducit hominem 
ad celsitudinem perfectionis. Quae enim pagina, 
aut quis sermo divinae auctoritatis Veteris ac 
Novi Testamenti, non est rectissima norma vitae 
humanae ? Aut quis liber sanctorum Catholicorum 
Patrum hoc non resonat, ut recto cursu pervenia- 
mus ad Creatorem nostrum ? Nec non et Colla- 
tiones Patrum, et Instituta et Vitae eorum ; sed et 
Regula sancti Patris nostri Basilii, quid aliud sunt, 
nisi bene viventium et obedientium monachorum 
instrumenta virtutum ? Nobis autem desidiosis et 
male viventibus atque negligentibus, rubor confu- 
sionis est. Quisquis ergo ad patriam coelestem 
festinas, hanc minimam inchoationis Regulam 
descriptam, adjuvante Christo, perfice : et tunc 
demum ad majora, quae supra commemoravimus, 
doctrinae virtutumque culmina, Deo protegente, 
pervenies. 



Digitized by Google 



QJufe of J5f. ®ene&tcf 



193 



hasten to the perfection of religion, there are the 
teachings of the holy Fathers, the following whereof 
bringeth a man to the height of perfection. For 
what page or what word is there in the divinely- 
inspired books of the Old and New Testaments, 
that is not a most unerring rule for human life? 
Or what book of the holy Catholic Fathers doth 
not loudly proclaim how we may by a straight 
course reach our Creator ? Moreover, the Con- 
ferences of the Fathers , their Institutes and their 
Lives , and the Rule of our holy Father Basil — 
what are these but the instruments whereby well- 
living and obedient monks attain to virtue? But 
to us, who are slothful and negligent and of evil 
lives, they are cause for shame and confusion. 
Whoever, therefore, thou art that hasteneth to thy 
heavenly country, fulfil by the help of Christ this 
least of Rules which we have written for beginners ; 
and then at length thou shalt arrive, under God's 
protection, at the lofty summits of doctrine and 
virtue of which we have spoken above. 



Digitized by Google 




Digitized by 




(JJofee 



195 



NOTES. 



Notb A (p. 14). — Fortissimam genas. The 
special fortitude here attributed by St. Benedict 
to the cenobitical life consists in the perpetual and 
absolute submission to the will of another which 
that life entails. Some commentators see in the 
word fortissimum an allusion to the greater strength 
and security of community life as compared with 
the eremitical : inasmuch as where two or three 
are gathered together, there our Lord Himself, the 
tower of strength — turris fortitudinis — has specially 
promised to be in the midst of them. See Perez, 
Comment . in S. Reg . ; also Turrecremata, ibid . 

Note B (p. 40). — Rara loquendi oonoedatur 
licentia. “ St. Benedict/* observes Calmet, 44 as 
well as all the ancient Rules, preserves an unbroken 
silence on the subject of recreation/' Nevertheless 
it appears certain, not only from this but from other 
passages in the Holy Rule, that conversation was 
not intended to be absolutely prohibited. Thus the 
brethren are directed (chap, xxxi.) to ask at proper 
times for what they require ; not to converse with 
one another except at proper times (chap, xlviii.) ; 
and again (chap, xlix.) to talk less than usual during 
Lent. Prom very early times, fixed periods were 
appointed for conversation. The statutes of Ade- 
lard (circ. 822 a.d.) permit talking in the dormitory 



Digitized by Google 




196 



(JJofe* 



on certain occasions — the Ordo Cluniacensis , of the 
11th century, lays down fixed rules and times for 
conversation in the cloister — and the early constitu- 
tions both of the Carthusian and Cistercian Orders 
explicitly legislate for conversations at regular times. 
(See Ven. Guigo, Statut . Carthus ., c. 7, and Monas- 
tic. Cisterciens ., p. 328, c. 5.) It is curious to note 
that it was anciently permitted to talk only on 
ferial days : silence and recollection were strictly 
prescribed on all festivals, propter festivitatum 
reverentiam ; and this pious custom still prevails 
in some religious houses, e.g ., in certain convents 
of the Canonesses Regular of St. John Lateran. 

Note C (p. 46). — Y olunt as habet poBnam, et 
necessitas parit coronam — i.e. the necessity, self- 
imposed upon the monk, of living in subjection to 
the will of another, the reward of which will be a 
crown of glory hereafter. These words are not to 
be found in Holy Scripture, and it has been con- 
jectured in consequence that by Scripture St. 
Benedict alludes to the writings of the Fathers, 
or early monastic saints. No such passage, how- 
ever, is known to exist ; and the reference is pro- 
bably, as Paul the Deacon, Smaragdus and others 
have supposed, to the general sense of Scripture on 
the subject, rather than to any particular passage. 
C/. Prov. xxi. 28; Eccles. xviii. 30; ib. xliii. 17; 
ib. viii. 18 ; 2 Tim. iv. 8 ; James i. 12 ; 1 Peter v. 4 ; 
Apoc. ii. 10. 

In the Rule of St. Augustine, it is interesting to 
note, occur the words, ubi scriptum est : Abomi- 
natio est Domino defigens omnium ; and this 
passage also is generally interpreted as being the 
general sense of Holy Scripture. 

Note D (p. 54).— Octava hora. The Romans 
divided the night as well as the day into twelve 



Digitized by Google 





Quotes 



197 



equal divisions or hours ; but as the night com- 
menced at sunset and continued till sunrise, the 
length of these hours would vary according to the 
season, being longer in winter and shorter in sum- 
mer. Calculated in this way, the eighth hour of 
the night would of course vary with the time of 
year, as well as with the latitude of the various 
countries. At mid-winter, in the latitude of Rome, 
the eighth hour would commence about 3 a.m., and 
end about 4. St. Benedict seems to lay down in 
this chapter that the hour for the night-office is to 
vary according to the above mode of reckoning. 
(See Perez, Comment ., c. viii. 13.) Paul the 
Deacon, however, with Turrecremata and others, 
interprets the words juxta considerationem rationis 
to mean that the eighth hour was always to be cal- 
culated from the same time, either from the first of 
November or the vernal equinox. 

The meditatio , in which the Rule prescribes that 
the time remaining after the night-office is to be 
spent, means, as is evident from the context, study, 
and not meditation in the modern sense of the word. 
St. Benedict does not lay down any fixed time for 
mental prayer, apart from the Divine Office. We 
know, however, that it was the regular practice in 
his monasteries, from his life by St. Gregory (Dia- 
logues, Bk. ii. c. 4), which speaks of “the hour 
when the singing of psalms was ended, and the 
monks betook themselves to prayer/ 1 

Note E (p. 62). — Data benedictione. The 
benedictio here referred to is the collect, or prayer 
of the day, said after the Gospel. The word bene- 
dictio is often used with the signification of prayer : 
e.g., in chaps, xxxv. and xxxviii., where the weekly 
reader and servers are directed to receive the 
blessing before entering on their offices. So, con- 
versely, in ch. xlix., the word oratio is used in the 



Digitized by Google 




198 



®ofeg 



sense of the blessing given by the Abbot : i€ Quod 
unusquisque offert, cum ejus fiat oratione et volun- 
tate/' 

Note F (p. 62).— Aliquid de lectionibus brevi- 
andum. Anciently the length of the lessons was 
not fixed as at present, but the signal for their 
conclusion was given by the Superior, who, when 
he thought fit, pronounced the words Tu autem 
Domine , the reader concluding miserere nobis . 
(Charlemagne, we are told, when presiding at the 
[office in his private chapel, coughed ( signum ex 
[gutture faciebat) as a signal for the reader to cease. 
In some monasteries it was the custom for the 
cantor to mark previously with a drop of wax, or 
with his finger-nail, the point where the lessons 
were to conclude. The present discipline of the 
Church, which has not only fixed the length of the 
lessons, but binds every professed monk to the 
recitation of the Office in its integrity, has of 
course superseded the injunction here given by St. 
Benedict. 

Note G (p. 62). — In directum. Bernard of M. 
Cassino and Calmet suppose this to mean simple 
recitation without chant. The more^robable inter- 
pretation is that the verses are to be said consecu- 
tively, unlike, e.g n the psalm Venite at matins, 
which is interspersed with antiphons. Dom Le- 
clerg, in an article in the u Dictionnaire d' Arch£o- 
logie Chr^tienne" (fasc. viii., col. 2299) gives 
reasons for his opinion that a psalm recited in 
directum was said by the whole choir together, not 
by alternate sides ; and this view is corroborated 
by a rubric in the Ambrosian Breviary : “ Psalmus 
directus in Dominicis diebus qui ab utroque choro 
stante dicitur communiter, et non alternatim." 
(See Note K.) 



Digitized by Google 




QJofe* 



199 



Noth H (p. 66). — Scandalorum spinas. In 
order to remind the brethren of the duty of mutual 
concord and charity, and the scandalous conse- 
quences of the opposite vices, St. Benedict here 
orders an exception to the general practice of saying 
the Lord's Prayer in secret, which was part of the 
disciplina arcani of the early Church. The Prayer 
was considered too sacred to be used or even heard 
by those not fully initiated into the Faith ; and 
hence the catechumens, who left the Church at the 
offertory of the Mass, would not be present at the 
solemn chanting of the Pater noster . In the 
Roman Office the Lord's Prayer is still said in 
secret wherever it occurs, with very few excep- 
tions. 

The Litanice spoken of in this chapter are the 
Kyrie eleison , Christe eleison, &c., immediately pre- 
ceding the Pater noster and Collect, with which the 
Office concludes. 

Note I (p. 70). — Misses sint. The word missa 
is used by ecclesiastical writers in various significa- 
tions : 1, The sacrifice of the Mass ; 2, the lessons 

sung at the Night-office ; 3, a canonical hour itself 
(c/. Cassian, lib. II., c. 13 — “ Post missam noctur- 
nam dormire non oportet ")* ; 4, a collect or prayer 
said at the end of the Office (Coneil. Milevitanum, 
can. 12. “ Orationes seu misscc quae prohibitae 
fuerint in Concilio ") ; 5, instead of missio , as at 
the end of Mass : “ Ite, missa est " — “ Go, you are 
dismissed." (So St. Cyprian uses remissa for re- 
missio .) The word can only be used here in one of 
the two latter senses ; and though both interpreta- 
tions have found advocates, the former, namely, 

* So Shakespere, in the well-known passage ( Romeo and 
Juliet , Act iv. Sc. i), 

“ Or shall I come to you at evening mass ? ” 
evidently alludes to the hour of vespers. 



Digitized by Google 




200 



(TJofc* 



that referring it to the final prayer or collect, is sup- 
ported by the principal commentotors, as Bernard 
of M. Cassino, Turrecremata, Caramuel, Boherius, 
Martene, & c. It is certain, from the Holy Rule 
itself, that a prayer was prescribed at the end of 
the Office (see chap, lxvii.) ; and it would therefore 
be natural to find it ordered here, where directions 
for the Divine Office are being minutely laid down 
by St. Benedict. 

Note K (p. 70). — Si Yero minor, in directum 
psallantur. Calmet well points out here that what 
is prescribed, in the case of a small community, 
cannot be the mere omission of the antiphon before 
and after the Psalms, which would make no appreci- 
able difference in the length of the Office. The 
learned F. Tomasi {In Responsoria et Antiphonaria 
EccL Roman., 1686) has shewn that it was anciently 
the custom to interpolate an antiphon, often after 
every verse of the psalm, as is still the case at 
the Venite of matins, and as we find in Ps. cxxxv., 
where the words 11 For His mercy endureth for 
ever ” are added as an antiphon to each verse. It 
was no doubt this frequent repetition of the anti- 
phon which St. Benedict allowed to be omitted. 
(See Note G.) 

Congregatio minor is usually interpreted to mean 
one consisting of less than twelve members, which 
was the primitive number of a Benedictine Commu- 
nity. St. Gregory ( Dialogues , B. ii., c. 3) tells us 
that St. Benedict “built [at Subiaco] twelve 
Abbeys, and in each of them he placed twelve 
monks.' 1 

Note L (p. 80). — In uno loco dormiant. This 
rule was strictly observed for many centuries. 
Separate cells are expressly forbidden in all the 
ancient Rules ; and in a.d. 1341 we find the General 



Digitized by Google 





QJofee 



201 



Chapter of the English Benedictines, and a hundred 
years later that of Cluny, repeating the same pro- 
hibition. The dormitory was only entered at night, 
and everything in the way of reading and study in 
the early monasteries was carried on in the cloister, 
from which seculars were for centuries strictly ex- 
cluded. 

Note M (p. 88). — Sympsectas : from the Greek 
aufA-TraiJciK, literally play fellows, collusores , and 
hence those who combine together for any purpose 
— not necessarily an unlawful one, as is now im- 
plied by “collusion.” The sympcectce here referred 
to may perhaps signify those brethren who had 
been brought up in the Monastery from childhood 
with the delinquent, and might thus be supposed 
to have special influence with him ; or, more pro- 
bably, the allusion is to the combination, or con- 
spiracy, so to speak, between the Abbot and some 
of the elder and more discreet members of his com- 
munity, with the object of bringing the refractory 
brother to a better mind. 

Note N (p. 96). — Sine typo. So all the MSS., 
but the word is nevertheless clearly not from tuitos 
(a figure or image) but from tu<|>os — pride (literally, 
the smoke obscuring the soul). The word typhus 
in this sense is not uncommon in late Latin. C/. 
Arnobius 11. 43, &c. So St. Augustine ( Epist . xxii. 
29), speaking of the oblations at funerals, says that 
they should be offered “ sine typho et cum alacri- 
tate.” And St. Gregory speaks of typhus superbice 
{Epist. 1. vi. 8). Both these passages have typhus 
in some MSS., owing, possibly, to the transcriber's 
ignorance of Greek, and to the consequently un- 
familiar look of the word in its Latin form. 

Note O (p. 104). — Usque ad missas susti- 
neant. That is, until after Holy Communion, 



Digitized by Google 




202 



($ofee 



which the servers would approach, with the rest 
of the Community, on all Sundays and holidays, at 
the one mass which was then celebrated in the 
Monastery. We see by this passage that St. 
Benedict inculcated the duty of communicating 
on all festivals of the Church, in emulation of the 
Egyptian and Syrian monks, who, as Cassian tells 
us (111. 2), observed the same pious practice. We 
learn from the early Rules that the monks were 
accustomed to communicate standing ; and this was 
continued by the Congregation of Cluny, among 
others, down to later times. 

Note P (p. 110). — Mixtum . . . propter 
Communionem sanctam. The mixtum here 
spoken of is, according to the best authority, a 
small portion of bread and wine, identical with the 
biberes et panem prescribed in chap. 35. St. 
Benedict allows it to the reader, before com- 
mencing his duty, for two distinct reasons : one, 
lest he might find his task too laborious, if under- 
taken fasting : the other, to prevent any incon- 
venience or involuntary irreverence which might 
be entailed by the effort of reading aloud a short 
time after communicating. The most ancient com- 
mentators are unanimous in this interpretation of 
the words propter Communionem sanctam ; and 
the Regula Magistri , which was written, according 
*to Mabillon ( De Studiis monasticis , II. 13), as early 
, as the 7th century, and is in great part an ampli- 
i fleation of the Rule of St. Benedict, has this direc- 
tion for the reader: u Ipse suum merum propter 
sputum sacramenti accipiat, et tunc incipiat legere.” 
Connected with this custom, of course, are the 
ablutions prescribed in the celebration of Mass, and 
also the practice, still observed in many places, of 
giving to the faithful a little wine or water immedi- 
ately after Communion. 



Digitized by Google 





Quotes 



203 



Perez sees in this expression of St. Benedict 
evidence that the practice of daily Commuuion 
prevailed in the early monasteries ; but the words 
are probably intended to apply only to the dies 
solemniores, which are expressly mentioned in the 
analogous case of the weekly servers (chap. xxxv.). 

Note Q (p. 118). — Infirmis intellectibus non 
erit utile. The Heptateuch (or Books of Moses 
and Josue) and the Books of the Kings would be 
considered too exciting to the imagination to be 
suitable for reading immediately before retiring to 
rest. We read that Ulphilas, bishop of the Goths, 
omitted the Books of Kings in his translation of 
the Scriptures into the vernacular, fearing lest the 
perusal of them might inflame the naturally warlike 
dispositions of his flock. 

Note R (p. 126).— Infantes . . . vapulent. 
The infantes or pueri referred to here and else- 
where in the Holy Rule were not boys receiving 
their education in the Monastery in view of some 
secular career, but were the aluntni , properly so 
called, or youthful aspirants to religious life, who 
wore the habit, and assisted at the Divine Office 
and other monastic exercises. (See post , Note V.) 
The following passage from the Ordo Cluniacensis 
of Bernard, drawn up in the 11th century, curiously 
illustrates the fidelity with which the instructions 
of St. Benedict were carried out in mediaeval times. 

1 ‘ Ad Nocturnos, imo ad omnes Horas, si quid ipsi pueri 
offendunt in Psalmodia, vel in alio cantu, minime differtur : 
absque mora frocco et cuculla exuti judicantur, et in sola camisia 
caeduntur (nisi laici sint in ecclesia, a quibus videri possint) : et 
hoc fit a Priore, vel eorum magistro, virgis vimineis levibus et 
teretibus, ad hoc provisis.” 

Note S (p. 138). — Geratur aut condatur. The 
meaning is clear, although somewhat elliptically ex- 



Digitized by Google 





204 



(&ofe« 



pressed. Nothing was to be done in the Oratory, 
and nothing kept there (< condatnr ), except what 
pertained to the due celebration of the Divine 
Service. 

Note T (p. 142). — Petita benedictione. That 
is, after respectfully saluting the guest. Benedicite 
was the ordinary form of greeting. 

Note U (p. 144). — Eulogias. Benedictiones . 

This word is used by ancient writers, both in its 
Greek and Latin form, in the sense of gifts or pre- 
sents. Thus in 1 Kings xxv. 27, Abigail, referring 
to the presents she is offering to David, says : 
“Wherefore, receive this blessing ( benedictionem : 
in LXX. version €u\6yiav) which thy handmaid 
hath brought to thee/' The word, as used here by 
St. Benedict, may bear the same meaning ; but it 
is generally understood in the stricter ecclesiastical 
sense of the bread or small cakes which were blessed 
during Mass, and given to the faithful in token of 
their being in full communion with the Church. 
The Eulogia is still given in parts of France, and 
also in the Greek Church, where it is known by the 
name of d^TtSwpoK, as being a kind of substitute for 
Holy Communion. It was a monastic custom of 
the highest antiquity that these eulogice , or blest 
cakes, should be distributed to the brethren in the 
refectory, before beginning their meal. The Capi- 
tula Monachorum Augtensium ( circ . 813 a.d.) pre- 
scribe as follows : “In refectorio, data benedi- 

ctione, veniant duo presbyteri ad Abbatem, et dant 
ipsi eulogium caeteris fratribus/' So in the Capi- 
tulare Aquisgranense (a.d. 816), cap. lxvii. “ Ut 
eulogiae Fratribus a presbyteris in refectorio den- 
tur/' C/. Regula Magistri , c. 76. 

The object of the prohibition laid down by St. 
Benedict is of course to discourage particular 



Digitized by Google 





Q}ofee 



205 



friendships, or marks of individual affection, as 
opposed to the spirit of community life. 

Note V (p. 158). — Cum oblatione. An offering, 
that is, of bread and wine, which was made by the 
parents at the offertory of the Mass in which their 
child was dedicated to God. ( Statuta Lanfranci , 
c. 18 ; Ordo Cluniacensis , c. 27.) Mere infants 
were sometimes offered in this way; but most of 
the ancient monastic constitutions forbade them to 
be received before they had attained the age of 
reason, and could distinguish right from wrong. 
The ratification of the parents' act was conditional 
on the subsequent consent of the child, whose final 
and solemn consecration to religion could not take 
place until his fifteenth year. The Council of Trent 
afterwards (Sess. XXV., cap. 15) fixed the age for 
profession at sixteen years complete ; and Pius IX., 
by a decree promulgated in 1857, further ordained 
that simple vows only should be taken at the end of 
the novitiate, and that the final and crowning act 
of solemn profession should not take place until 
three years more had elapsed. 

The Ordo Cluniacensis of Bernard, already cited, 
contains (cap. 17) a detailed account of the discipline 
and mode of education of these alumni , or youthful 
monks, in one of the most important mediaeval 
monasteries. The writer concludes his account 
with the expression of his opinion that “ it is hard 
to see how a king’s son could be brought up with 
greater care in a palace than the youngest boy re- 
ceives in the Abbey of Cluny.” (From the Vetus 
Disciplina Monastica , Paris, 1726.) 

Notb X (p. 1 66). — Episoopus adhibeatur in 
testimonium. These words are usually interpreted 
to mean that the Bishop was to be actually called 
upon to intervene in the case of a refractory priest. 



Digitized by Google 





206 






Taken in conjunction with the appeal to the Ordi- 
nary prescribed in the event of an improper election 
to the abbacy (chap, lxiv.), they seem to shew that 
St. Bbnbdict did not, in laying down his Rule, con- 
template that exemption from episcopal authority 
which his Order afterwards enjoyed, it has been 
maintained, indeed, that no trace of such exemption 
is to be found previous to the time of St. Gregory 
the Great (590-604). P. Bouix, however (De jure 
Regularium , II., cap. 2. S 1), clearly shews that 
there were instances of this immunity, at least in 
the Eastern and African Churches, two centuries 
or more before the above date, and therefore con- 
siderably anterior to the time of St. Bbnbdict. 

Note Y (p. 168). — Nonnos. This designation 
continued for many centuries to be applied to the 
elder members of the monastic Community. Ber- 
nard of M. Cassino, in his commentary (of the end 
of the 13th century) speaks of nonnus Remigius , 
nonnus Jacobus , &c. The title of Nonnus was 
afterwards superseded (except among the Cister- 
cians, who still retain it) by that of Domnus , of 
which indeed some have maintained it to be merely 
another form. The word is found in late Latin 
writers in the sense of “tutor" or “master." 
(Inscr. ap. Zaccaria, Stor. left. d 9 Italia , tom ix., 
p. 492.) It is probably of Egyptian origin, and was 
applied in very early times to the monks and nuns 
of Egypt. ( Vid . S. Jerome, Epist. 117, No. 6, and 
22, No. 16. Vitee Patrum , passim , &c.) It occurs 
frequently also in the African Church, as a proper 
name : we read of a St. Nonnus, an Abbot Nonnus, 
and others. The mother of St. Gregory Nazianzen 
was named Nonna. The word still survives in our 
“ nun " ( = nonna). 



Digitized by Google 








207 



INDEX. 



Abbot, the : holds the place of Christ, 15 ; to teach 
by deeds rather than by words, 17 ; to make no 
distinction of persons, 19 ; when he is to consult 
the brethren, 25 ; to read the Gospel at the Night- 
Office, 63 ; and the Lord's Prayer at Lauds and 
Vespers, 65 ; to share his burdens with the deans, 
-81 ; to have special care of the excommunicate, 
89 ; how he is to deal with the incorrigible, 91 ; 
how he is to care for the sick, 107 ; he may add 
something to the fare, 113; to give warning for 
the Work of God, 129 ; to take into account the 
weakness of delicate brethren, 133 ; may break 
his fast for a guest, 141 ; to see to the clothing of 
the brethren, 147 ; to take his meals with the 
guests, 149 ; his title, 169 ; how he is to be ap- 
pointed, 171 ; to prefer mercy to justice, 173 ; to be 
loved by the brethren, 191 ; his responsibility for 
the souls of his subjects, 23 ; must give an account 
to God of his judgments, 27, 149, 169, 181. 

Age, every, to have its proper discipline, 93 ; the 
order of the community not to be decided by, 169. 

Alleluia, when to be said, 67. 

Anchorites, or hermits, the second kind of monks, 13. 

Anger, a monk must not give way to, 29. 

Antiphons and psalms, by whom to be given out, 129. 

Basil, the Rule of Saint, 193. 

Baths, the use of, when permitted, 107. 



Digitized by Google 



208 



3nfc«r 



Beds of the monks, 81 ; bedding, 147 ; to be ex- 
amined by the Abbot, 149. 

Bishop, when he is to be called to intervene, 167, 173. 

Brethren, the, to be consulted in important matters, 
25 ; how they are to give their opinion, ib. ; to 
minister to one another at table, 111 ; employ- 
ment for weak and delicate, 133 ; who work at a 
distance, 137 ; not to eat out of the monastery, 
ib. ; when sent on a journey, 183; when com- 
manded to do impossibilities, 185. 

Cellarer, the, his duties, 95, seq. ; may be excused 
from the kitchen, 103 ; to have special care of 
the sick, 109. 

Cenobites, the first kind of monks, described, 13 ; 
the most stable kind, 15. 

Chastity, a monk is to love, 33. 

Children of the monastery, how they are to be cor- 
rected, 93 ; the Cellarer to have special care of, 
95 ; dispensed from strict letter of Rule, 109 ; 
their measure of food, 113 ; to be whipt for mis- 
takes in choir, 127 ; offered to God in the monas- 
tery, 159 ; their order at prayer and at table, 171 ; 
to be kept under due discipline until their fifteenth 
year, 187. 

Christ, soldier of, 3 ; evil thoughts to be dashed on, 
7, 31 ; we share the sufferings of, by patience, 11 ; 
Abbot represents, 15 ; we are all one in, 19 ; we 
must deny ourselves to follow, 29 ; nothing to be 
preferred to the love of, ib . ; we must pray for our 
enemies in the love of, 33 ; nothing to be more 
dear to us than, 35 ; Rule to be observed not from 
dread of hell, but for love of, 55 ; sick to be served 
as, 107 ; guests to be received as, 139 ; is to be 
adored in their persons, 141 ; Abbot so called as 
holding the place of, 169 ; Rule to be fulfilled with 
help of, 193. 

Church, psalmody of the Roman, 65. 



Digitized by Google 







209 



Climate, consideration of, in monks* clothing, 145. 

Clothes of the brethren, to be of coarse stuff, 147 ; 
of proper length, ib. ; nothing superfluous allowed, 
ib. ; for travelling, ib. ; to be taken from a brother 
on profession, 157 ; and restored to him should 
he leave the monastery, ib. 

Communion, holy, 111, 169. 

Community, when to be consulted, 25 ; stability in, 
35 ; Cellarer to be a father to, 95 ; confession of 
faults before, 127 ; to wash the feet of guests, 141 ; 
reception of a novice into, 155 ; of the order of, 
167 ; to elect the Abbot, 171 ; may ask for the 
appointment of a provost, 179. 

Compline, how to be said, 71 ; order of psalms at, 
75; no speaking allowed after, 119. 

Conferences, to be read in the evening, 119 ; all to 
be present at, ib. ; the instruments of virtue, 193. 

Confession of faults, duty of, 31 ; to God withtears, 
33 ; fifth degree of humility, 51 ; before the com- 
munity, 127 ; of secret sins, ib. 

Congregatio minor. Note K, p. 200. 

Conversion of life, promised by novice at profession, 
155. 

Corporal punishment, prescribed, 21, 85, 91, 93, 127. 

Covetousness, Cellarer to beware of, 97 ; in selling 
the goods of the monastery, warning against, 151. 

Craftsmen of the monastery, 151. 

Data benedictione. Note B, p. 197. 

Day-hours, how to be said, 69 ; number of psalms 
to be sung at, 71. 

Day-light, meals to be taken by, 117. 

Deacon, ordained for the monastery, 165. 

Dead, to bury the, an instrument of good works, 29. 

Deans of the monastery, 81 ; to share the burdens 
of the Abbot, ib. ; how to be chosen, ib. ; priests 
are to be subject to, 167 ; reasons for their ap- 
pointment, 179. 



Digitized by Google 





210 






Death, God wills not the, of a sinner, 9 ; we should 
keep daily before our eyes, 31 ; perseverance in 
the monastery until, 1 1 ; Christ obedient unto, 47 ; 
of Ananias and Saphira, warning from the, 151. 

Defend, one monk not to, another when reproved, 
185. 

Detractor, a monk must not be a, 31. 

Discipline, the same to be imposed upon all, 19 ; 
degrees of, to be ascended by humility, 43 ; the 
measure of, for offences, 85 ; every age to have 
its proper measure of, 93 ; of the Rule, 99, 161, 
167, 187 ; children to be kept under, 171 ; until 
their fifteenth year, 187. 

Discretion, mother of virtues, 175 ; the duty of the 
Abbot, ib. ; in dealing with the young, 187. 

Divine Office, all must hasten to, 121 ; of those who 
come late to, ib. 

Dormitory, discipline to observed in, 83. 

Drink, measure of, 115; the Abbot may increase, ib. 

Drowsy, not to be, an instrument of good works, 31 ; 
how they are to be aroused from sleep, 83. 

Drunkenness, warning against, 115. 

Enclosure, monks not to go beyond, 183; how the 
necessity for going beyond is to be avoided, 181 ; 
the rule regarding, to be frequently read, 183. 

Enemies, the duty of loving, 29 ; of praying for, 
33. 

Episcopus adhibeatur in testimonium . Note X, p. 
205. 

Eulogias. Note U, p. 204. 

Evil Thoughts. See Thoughts. 

Excommunicate brethren, no one to associate with, 
87 ; the Abbot to have special care of, 89 ; how 
they are to make satisfaction, 125 ; no brother 
may excommunicate another, 187. 

Excommunication, 83 ; measure of, 85 ; greater, 87 ; 
for eating out of the monastery, 137. 



Digitized by Google 





Jnbex 



211 



Pasting, an instrument of good works, 29 ; children 
to be punished by, 93. 

Father, God as an angry, 3 ; Abbot to shew the 
affection of a, 21 ; Cellarer to be like a, to the 
community, 95. 

Fear of God, Abbot to do everything with the, 27 ; 
first degree of humility, 43 ; Cellarer to have the, 
95 ; infirmarian, 107 ; guest-brother, 143 ; monks 
in general, 191 ; in electing the Abbot, 171. 

Flesh-meat, use of, forbidden, 113; allowed to the 
sick, 107, 113. 

Food, measure of, 113; for children, ib. ; to be 
diminished in Lent, 135. 

Fool, not corrected by words, 21 ; lifteth up his 
voice in laughter, 53. 

Fortissimum genus. Note A, p. 195. 

Fruit, allowed at meals, 113. 

Fugitives from the monastery, 93. 

Geratur aut condatur . Note S, p. 203. 

Gifts, not to be given or received without leave, 145. 

Girovagi, fourth kind of monks, 15. 

Gluttony, warning against, 113. 

Good Shepherd, Abbot to imitate, 89. 

Goods of the monastery, the Cellarer to regard as 
sacred vessels of the altar, 95 ; not to squander, 
97 ; Abbot to appoint trustworthy brethren to 
look after, 99. 

Grace, at meal-time, 123. 

Gravity, monks to speak with, 53 ; especially after 
Compline, 121 ; in going to Divine Office, ib. ; 
singing and reading to be done with, 129. 

Guests, how, are to be welcomed, 139 ; Cellarer to 
have special care of, 95 ; silence after Compline 
may be broken on account of, 119; also the con- 
ventual fast, 141 ; brethren not to speak to, with- 
out leave, 143 ; Abbot to take his meals with the, 
149 ; stranger monks coming as, 163. 



Digitized by Google 




212 






Hbu, Abbot to remember the foil of, 21. 

Hell, how to escape, 11 ; fear of, 31, 35, 55 ; those 
who despise God will be consumed in, 43 ; ways 
which lead to the depths of, 45. 

Heptateuch, not to be read in the evening, 119. 

Hermits, second kind of monks, 13. 

Honour, due, to be shewn to guests, 139; juniors 
to hold their seniors in, 169; brethren to prefer 
one another in, 191. 

Humility, brethren to give their opinions with, 25 ; 
twelve degrees of, 41, seq. ; he who forsakes the 
monastery to be tested in, when re-admitted, 93 ; 
Cellarer especially to cultivate, 97 ; also the 
craftsmen of the monastery, 151 ; in the saluta- 
tion of guests, 141 ; in reading and singing, 129. 

Idleness, enemy of the soul, 129. 

Impossibilities, if a brother be commanded, 185. 

Incorrigible offenders, how to be treated, 91. 

In directum. Note G, p. 198. 

Infantes vapulent. Note R, p. 203. 

Infirmary, to be set apart for the sick, 107 ; who is 
to serve there, ib . ; regulations for the, ib. 

Infirmis intellectibus , &c. Note Q, p. 203. 

Instruments of Good Works, 27, seq. ; workshop 
wherein they are to be used, 35. 

In uno loco dormiant. Note L, p. 200. 

Journey, brethren sent on a, 183 ; to be prayed for 
before and after, ib. ; not to talk of what they 
have seen or heard outside, ib. ; to observe the 
appointed Hours, 137. 

Joy, wherewith we are to mortify ourselves, 135; 
to await Easter with spiritual, ib. 

Judgment, Abbot must account for himself and his 
disciples at the dreadful, 17 ; he will have to 
answer for their souls on the Day of, 23 ; to fear 
the Day of, an instrument of good works, 31 ; our 



Digitized by Google 




3 nbex 



213 



reward from the Lord on the Day of, 35; to 
imagine oneself before the terrible, twelfth degree 
of humility, 55. 

Juniors, to reverence their elders, 33, 169; not to 
sit down in their presence, 171 ; God often re- 
veals what is best to, 25 ; how they are to obey 
their elders, 189. 

Kingdom of heaven, how to attain to, 7 ; we shall 
inherit, 1 1 ; we hope to see Christ in, 7. 

Kiss of peace, not to be given to guests until after 
prayer, 141 ; order in giving, 169. 

Kitchen, weekly servers of the, 103 ; to receive due 
help, ib. ; blessing for them, 105 ; Abbot's and 
guests', 143 ; two brethren to be appointed to, ib. 

Knives, monks not to have beside them when asleep, 
83 ; Abbot to provide, 149. 

Labour, the, of obedience, 3; daily manual, 129; 
moderation in, 131 ; for brethren who are weak, 
133; dispensations allowed on account of, 113, 
115, 117 ; true monks who live by, 131 ; those 
engaged in, at a distance, 137. 

Lauds, to begin at daybreak, 57 ; on Sundays, 63 ; 
on week-days, 65 ; blessing of servers after, 105. 

Laughter, excessive, forbidden, 33, 41, 53. 

Law, Divine, to be read to guests, 141 ; Abbot to 
be learned in, 173. 

Lent, how to be observed, 135; spiritual reading 
during, 133. 

Lenten character of a monk's life, 135. 

Letters, not to be sent or received without the 
Abbot’s leave, 145 ; if a novice does not know his, 
another must write his petition at profession, 
155; commendatory, necessary for monks who 
come from other monasteries, 165. 

Library, books to be taken from the, for Lent, 133. 

Life, everlasting, how to attain to, 5, 1 1 ; desire of, 



Digitized by Google 




214 






31 ; obedience sweetened by thought of, 35 ; 
humble man to reflect on, 43 ; good zeal leads us 
to, 133 ; prayer that Christ may bring us all to, ib. 

Meals, reading at, 109; silence during, 111 ; the 
hours for, 117; to be taken in daylight, tb . ; 
penalty for coming late to, 123; not to be taken 
out of the monastery without express leave, 137 ; 
to be taken earlier by the old and the children, 
109 ; Abbot to take his, with the guests, 149. 

Missce. Note I, p. 199. 

Mixtum. Note P, p. 202. 

Moderation, everything to be done with, 131. 

Monks, different kinds of, 13; true, if they live by 
the work of their hands, 131 ; to beware of sur- 
feiting, 113; from other monasteries, how they 
are to be received, 163 ; seeking admission into 
the community, ib. 

Murmuring, obedience must be without, 37 ; either 
of heart or of lip, 39 ; the penalty for, 83 ; abso- 
lutely prohibited, 103; about the measure of 
drink, 115 ; no just cause of, must be given, 117 ; 
the guest-brothers to beware of, 143. 

Naked, to clothe the, an instrument of good works, 
29. 

Names, by which the brethren are to call one 
another, 169. 

Necessaries, to be supplied to all by the Abbot, 101 ; 
according to the need of each one, ib. ; the vice 
of private ownership thus guarded against, 149. 

Night-Office, 55 ; how many psalms to be said at, 
57 ; in summer time, 59 ; on Sundays, 61. 

Noblemen, sons of, offered to God in the monastery, 
159 ; regulations as to their property, ib. 

None, how to be said, 71 ; order of psalms at, 73; 
when the brethren are to fast until, 117. 

Nonnus. Note Y, p. 206. 



Digitized by Google 




3nbe* 



215 



Novice, how to be tried, 153 ; who is to be set over 
him, ib. ; form of professing a, 155 ; how to dis- 
pose of his property, 1 57. 

Obedience, labour of, 3; we have to fight under 
holy, 11; first degree of humility, 35; when 
acceptable to God, 37 ; unwilling, ib. ; for the 
love of God, 49 ; in embracing hardships, ib. ; 
promised by the novice at profession, 155 ; priests 
specially bound to, 165 ; to impossible commands, 
185 ; mutual, of the brethren to one another, 189 ; 
monks to vie with one another in, 191. 

Oblatione , cum. Note V, p. 205. 

Occasion, to the evil one, 123, 145; of scandals, 
67, 177, 187; of presumption, 187. 

Octava hora. Note D, p. 196. 

Offending brethren, special care to be taken of the, 
89 ; prayers for, 91. 

Offering of children to God in the monastery, 159. 

Old, the, dispensed from strict letter of Rule, 109. 

Omnipresence, the Divine, duty of realising, 31 ; 
the first degree of humility, 45 ; sense of, when 
engaged in the Work of God, 79. 

Oratory, the, to be used only for purposes of prayer, 
139 ; excommunication from, 87 ; those who come 
late to, 121 ; those unable to be present in, 137 ; 
the novice to be admitted to profession in, 155. 

Order in which the psalms are to be said, 73. 

Order of the brethren, 167. 

Persecution, bearing for justice sake, 29. 

Petita benedictione. Note T, p. 204. 

Poor, the, duty of relieving, 29 ; Cellarer to take 
care of, 95 ; to be specially welcomed, 141 ; old 
garments to be kept for, 147 ; novice may give 
his property to, 157 ; children of, offered to God 
in the monastery, 159. 

Porter of the monastery, to be of mature age, 181 ; 



Digitized by Google 




216 



Jnfcejr 



how to answer visitors, 181 ; to have help if 
necessary, ib. 

Prayer, the duty of, 33 ; the Lord's, to be said aloud 
by the Abbot at Lauds and Vespers, 65 ; rever- 
ence at, 79 ; compunction in, 79 ; in common, to 
be short, ib. ; for offending brethren, 91 ; for the 
servers, 105; for the reader. 111 ; to be increased 
in Lent, 135; private, 139; for those sent on a 
journey, 183 ; commemoration of absent brethren 
at, 183. 

Presents, not to be given or received without the 
Abbot’s leave, 1 45 ; not even from parents, 1 45. 

Pride, to be chastised by corporal punishment, 21 ; 
an exaltation of ourselves, 41 ; those who defend 
their faults through, 91 ; prayer against, for the 
reader, 111; danger of, in the provost, 1 77 ; 
newly-ordained priests to beware of, 165. 

Priests, who seek admission into the monastery, 
161 ; ordained from the community, 165; insub- 
ordinate, how to be treated, 167. 

Prime, how to be said, 71 ; order of psalms at, 73; 
manual labour after, in summer, 129. 

Private ownership, vice of, 9^ ; its punishment, 101 ; 
precautions to be taken against, by the Abbot, 149. 

Prostration, for serious offences, 125, 189; in 
honour of guests, 141. 

Provost of the monastery, to be appointed by the 
Abbot, 177 ; to do the Abbot’s bidding, 179 ; may 
if necessary be deposed or expelled, 179. 

Psalter, to be studied after Night-Office by those 
who are backward, 57 ; whole, to be recited every 
week, 77. 

Punishment, for light faults, 85; for grave offences, 
87 ; for associating with the excommunicate, 87 ; 
for private ownership, 101 ; for unpunctuality at 
choir or table, 121 ; for making mistakes at Divine 
Office, 127 ; for breaking or losing anything, 127; 
for idleness, 133 ; manner of, for the children, 93. 



Digitized by Google 





3n*ex 



217 



Rara loquendi concedatur licentia . Note B, p. 195. 

Reader, weekly, 109; to ask prayers of all, 111 ; 
when to take his meal, 111. 

Reading, duty of listening to, 35 ; at table, 109 ; 
greatest silence to be observed during, 111 ; 
private, after dinner, 131 ; time for, during win- 
ter, 131 ; in Lent, 133 ; on Sundays, 133; work 
to be given to those who cannot read, 133. 

Receiving brethren into religion, of, 153. 

Recreation. Note B, p. 195. 

Reverence, in rising for the Gloria , 59 ; due, in 
asking anything of the Superior, 41 ; to be ob- 
served in prayer, 79 ; for the priesthood, 161 ; 
the provost to execute the Abbot's orders with, 
179. 

Rule, the, all to follow as their guide, 25 ; Abbot to 
observe in everything, 27 ; eighth degree of humi- 
lity to follow the common, 53 ; punishment for 
transgressing, 83 ; to be relaxed for the aged and 
for children, 109 ; to be thrice read through to 
the novice, 153; the yoke of, 155; priests who 
are admitted bound to observe, 161 ; also priests 
ordained in the monastery, 167 ; provost to be- 
ware of contemning, 179 ; about enclosure, to be 
frequently read, 183; written for beginners, 193 ; 
the discipline of, 99, 161, 167, 187^ 

Saints' Days, Night-Office on, 67. 

Sarabaites, third kind of monks, described, 13. 

Satisfaction, for obeying unwillingly, 39 ; for causing 
the brethren to rise too late, 63 ; for offences, 85 ; 
delinquents to be urged to make, 89 ; for coming 
late to choir, 121 ; or to table, 123 ; how the ex- 
communicate are to make, 125; for mistakes in 
Divine Office, 127, 

Scandal, Lord's Prayer to be said aloud on account 
of, 67; in appointing the provost, 177; of one 
monk defending another when accused, 187. 



Digitized by Google 




218 






Scandalorum spinas . Note H, p. 199. 

Servers, weekly, 103 ; to receive help if necessary, 
103; their duties, 105; prayer and blessing for, 
105. 

Seat, how to be said, 71 ; order of psalms at, 73. 

Shoes of the brethren, 145. 

Sick brethren, special care to be taken of, 107 ; not 
to give needless trouble, 107 ; who is to tend, 107 ; 
allowed flesh meat, 107 ; Cellarer to take special 
heed to, 109. 

Signal, for rising in the morning, 83; for Divine 
Office, 121 ; instant obedience to, prescribed, 121, 
131. 

Silence, reasons for observing, 39 ; becoming to 
disciples, 41 ; love of, ninth degree of humility, 
53; at table, 111 ; after Compline, 119; after 
dinner, 131 ; in leaving the Oratory, 139. 

Singularity, avoidance of, eighth degree of humility, 
53. 

Sleep, time to arise from, 5 ; how monks are to, 81 ; 
to be shortened in Lent, 135. 

Spirit, Holy, speaking to the Church, 5 ; manifested 
in our souls, 55 ; the joy of, 135. 

Stability, in the community, 35 ; promised by the 
novice at profession, 155: and by clerics seeking 
admission into the monastery, 161. 

Study, after the Night-Office, 57 ; where the novice 
is to, 153; those who will not or cannot, how 
they are to be occupied, 133. 

Sustineant usque ad missas . Note O, p. 201. 

Summer, Night-Office in, 59; hours for meals in, 
H7. 

Sunday, Night-Office on, 61 ; Lauds on, 63 ; Day- 
Hours on, 73 ; to be spent in reading, 133 ; bless- 
ing of servers on, 105 ; reader to begin his week 
on, 111. 

Sunset, duty of reconciliation before, 35. 

Sympcectas . Note M, p. 201. 



^Digitized by Google 




3nW 



219 



Talking, leave for, to be seldom given, 41 ; to re- 
frain from, ninth degree of humility, 53 ; to be 
curtailed during Lent, 135. 

Tears, our sins to be confessed with, 33 ; make our 
prayers efficacious, 79; a monk should pray 
privately with, 139. 

Thoughts, evil, how to dispose of, 7, 31 ; Anchorites 
fight alone against their, 13 ; a monk at all times 
to keep himself from, 43 ; how a humble brother 
is to guard against, 45 ; to reveal to the Abbot 
one's, fifth degree of humility, 51. 

Tierce, how to be said, 71 ; order of psalms at, 73 ; 
brethren to read until, during Lent, 131. 

Tokens, a monk may not receive, without the Abbot's 
permission, 145. 

Tools of the monastery, who is to look after, 99 ; 
Abbot to keep a list of, 99 ; penalty for damaging 
or neglecting, 99. 

Trinity, honour paid to the Holy, 59. 

Truth, reward of him who speaketh, in his heart, 7 ; 
Abbot to make known God’s, 17 ; a monk is to 
utter, from heart and mouth, 29. 

TypOy sine . Note N, p. 201. 

Unpunctuality, in calling up the brethren, 63 ; in 
coming to choir or to table, 121 ; penalty for, 121. 

Vespers, how to be celebrated, 71 ; order of psalms 
at, 73 ; Abbot to say the Lord’s Prayer aloud at, 
65 ; brethren to work in summer from None 
until, 131. 

Vessels of the monastery, how to be cared for, 95 ; 
to be given up clean by weekly servers, 105. 

Virtue, a monk to observe the Rule from delight in, 
55; discretion the mother of, 175; Conferences 
of the Fathers the instruments of, 193 ; by ob- 
servance of the Rule we arrive at the summit of, 
193. 



Digitized by Google 




220 



3n*e* 



Voluntas habet poenam, &c . Note C, p. 196. 

Warning, to be given for Divine Office, 1 29. 

Weak brethren, to receive due consideration from 
the Abbot, 133. 

Will, renunciation of our own, 3; a monk should 
hate his own, 33 ; the obedient man instantly 
forsakes his own, 37 ; Scripture teaches us not to 
do our own, 45 ; not to love our own, second 
degree of humility, 47 ; all things to be done 
according to the Abbot’s, 135 ; a professed monk’s, 
no longer in his own power, 101. 

Wine, use of, tolerated, 115; Abbot may increase 
the quantity of, 115; maketh the wise to fall 
away, 115; caution against murmuring for the 
want of, 115 ; he who comes late to table to be 
deprived of his portion of, 123. 

Witnesses, children to be offered in presence of, 
159. 

Words, he who heareth God’s, like a house built on 
a rock, 9 ; Abbot to teach by deeds rather than 
by, 17 ; well-disposed to be at first corrected only 
with, 21 ; a monk not to speak vain, 33 ; silly, 
absolutely forbidden, 41 ; to speak in few, eleventh 
degree of humility, 53. 

Work of God, nothing to be preferred to, 121 ; 
penalty for coming late to, 121 ; the announce- 
ment of the hour for, 129 ; how to be performed 
by those at work or at a distance, 137. 

Yokb, of the Rule, the novice when professed can- 
not withdraw his neck from under, 155. 

Zbal, good, which monks ought to have, 191. 



Digitized by Google 



Digitized by 




Digitized by 




Digitized by 




Digitized by Google 




Digitized by Google 




Digitized by 





AU BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS. 



R#n«wts and Recharges may be made 4 days prior to the due date. 
Books may be Renewed by calling 642-3405. 





GENERAL 



libra *y-u.c.ber^ 











£~t>S: 

/^7v' v 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 
— ^ 



